SO WELCOME TO THE APRIL
REGULAR MEETING OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR DETAILED
INFORMATION AND MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE READ THE
FULL PRINTED MEDIA AGENDA
PROVIDED MISKELLY CAN YOU CALL
THE ROLE?
YES, NOTING THAT I GIVE RANDALL
APRON'S AND MILLS HAVE
INDICATED THAT THEY WILL BE
ABSENT FOR THIS MEETING.
>> COMMISSIONERS OF IT HERE.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
HERE.
COMMISSIONER HERE.
COMMISSIONER, WE HEAR
COMMISSIONER CLARK HERE.
>> COMMISSIONER WEISS HERE YOU
HAVE A QUORUM.
>> THANK YOU.
NEXT WE MOVE TO THE AGENDA SO
WE HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE THE
AGENDA APPROVED COMMISSIONER
WHICH SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
DISH AND A DISCUSSION I WAS IN
FAVOR AND APPROVED A MOTION.
HARRIS, MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO
THROUGH THE PREVIOUS MINUTES
FROM APRIL 14TH, 20 23?
UH, COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER
DISH SECONDED ANY DISCUSSION ON
THE MINUTES KNOW ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR PLEASE SAY I OPPOSE NO
MOTION CARRIES SO I WANT TO
PAUSE HERE AND I'VE BEEN
REQUESTED BY COMMISSIONER CLARK
UH TO TAKE A MOMENT TO SAY SOME
WORDS.
>> I WANT TO OPEN UP THE MIC TO
COMMISSIONER CLARK SO I KEEP IT
PRETTY BRIEF BECAUSE IT'S STILL
RECENT BUT I JUST WANTED TO
ACKNOWLEDGE PUBLIC SERVICE.
JUDE WALTON WHO WE LOST
RECENTLY AND IT'S HIT A LOT
OF US IN THE COMMUNITY REALLY
HARD AND IT'S VERY DIFFICULT TO
SAY ANYTHING ABOUT AT THE
MOMENT.
BUT UM, DUDE HAD AN ENORMOUS
IMPACT ON DIFFERENT AREAS
OF THE CITY PUBLIC SERVICE WITH
HER WORK WITH PARK WITH THE
WORK OF AVALON HOUSING AND
I
JUST I GOT HIM A BIT SHORT ON
WORDS THAT DIFFICULT RIGHT NOW
BUT I JUST WANTED TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT AND HER PUBLIC
SERVICE COMMUNITY AND REQUEST
THAT IF YOU HAVE A MOMENT TO
SHOW SOME EXTRA LOVE AND
APPRECIATION I KNOW THE PEOPLE
THAT SHE WORKED WITH AND ALL
OF HER FUNCTIONS CAPACITIES ARE
REALLY HURTING RIGHT NOW.
SO IT'S THANK YOU FOR THAT.
OK, UH, NEXT UP OUR REPORTS TO
THE PLANNING COMMISSION UH,
COUNCIL MEMBER, DO YOU HAVE
ANYTHING TO REPORT?
>> OH INDEED I DO.
SO FOR 15 WEST WASHINGTON HAS
BEEN THE CONCEPT PLAN AND THE
REZONING FROM P L TO PD
RECEIVED ITS FINAL APPROVAL
LAST NIGHT WITH ONE UM I THINK
NOT NOT TOO BURDENSOME
AMENDMENT THAT THAT AT A
MINIMUM WHATEVER WHATEVER COMES
OUT OF WHATEVER PROCESS MOVES
FORWARD FROM HERE IS NET ZERO
READY AND I THINK THAT'S THE
SPIRIT OF THAT IS REALLY TO
GIVE BREATH.
IT'S TO SEND A SIGNAL THAT WE
CARE ABOUT IT BUT THAT WE ALSO
TRUST STAFF AND WE ENTRUST
STAFF WITH THE FLEXIBILITY TO
DO WHAT THEY CAN BECAUSE WE
REALLY WANT TO SUCCEED WITH
THIS PROJECT.
THIS TIME WE'VE GONE ON FOR A
LONG TIME AND IT IT FEELS FEELS
URGENT TO GET THAT CLEANED UP
AND DO IT IN A WAY THAT DOESN'T
COST MONEY OR DOESN'T COST
MONEY THAT FEELS LIKE MONEY.
RIGHT.
YOU KNOW, GENERAL FUND MONEY.
>> SO I DON'T REMEMBER ANYTHING
ELSE THAT YOU WOULD BE
INTERESTED IN BUT PERHAPS I AM
OVERLOOKING SOMETHING.
>> MR. LEONARD.
I'M I HAVE TO UH UH TWO ITEMS
FIRST UH ONE ADDITIONAL ITEM ON
THE AGENDA LAST EVENING WAS THE
CITY COUNCIL APPROVED A
CONTRACT TO HIRE INTERFACE TO
DRAFT A NEW COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
FOR THE CITY.
I THINK SHE'S SO EXCITED ABOUT
IT SHE'S JUST WRAPPED UP IN
OPTIMISM AS OPPOSED TO
REMEMBERING THAT PROCEDURAL
DETAIL.
SO ROLL YOUR SLEEVES.
WE'VE GOT A COUPLE WE'VE GOT A
BUSY EIGHTEEN TO TWENTY FOUR
MONTHS HAVE YOU AS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND THEN ANOTHER
ITEM THAT ARE ON THE MANAGER
PART I'M GOING TO TAKE A MOMENT
TO GO A LITTLE BIT MORE IN
DEPTH HERE.
I PROVIDED TWO DOCUMENTS TO YOU
AS WELL AS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
ONE IS A LETTER FROM THE
PETITIONERS OF TWENTY NINE
TWENTY NINE PLYMOUTH WHO ARE
HERE I'M SURE TO HAPPY TO
ADDRESS ANY QUESTIONS THAT YOU
MIGHT HAVE REQUESTING
RECONSIDERATION OF THE DENIAL
OF THEIR PROJECT HAVE PROPOSED
A PETITION THAT'S SHARED WITH
YOU THAT TO SUMMARIZE THEY
WOULD THEY WOULD LIKE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO CONTINUE
SUBMITTAL OF OUR SITE PLAN NOT
THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE WITH
THE INTENTION OF REMOVING DRIVE
THRU LANES FROM THEIR PROPOSED
PROJECT AND ADDING SOME
ADDITIONAL SUSTAINABILITY
FEATURES.
THE MOTION HAS BEEN DECIDED,
HOWEVER, UNDER THE PANKRATION
BYLAWS THEY CAN REQUEST BOTH UP
TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION AT
YOUR DISCRETION WHETHER OR NOT
YOU ARE INTERESTED IN
RECONSIDERING THAT MOTION.
TO THAT END I'VE PROPOSED THREE
MOTIONS FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION.
IT SEEMS A LOT OF A LOT
OF STEPS FOR FOR US BUT THAT'S
THE NATURE OF THIS PROCESS.
THERE ARE THREE MOTIONS THAT I
PROPOSE.
ONE WOULD BE A MOTION TO AMEND
THE AGENDA THIS EVENING IN
ORDER TO ADD RECONSIDERATION
OF THE TWENTY NINE TWENTY NINE
PLYMOUTH SITE PLAN APPROVAL NOT
THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION WHOSE
APPROVAL TO YOUR AGENDA IF YOU
AS THE PLANNING COMMISSION BY
MAJORITY PRESIDENT ELECT TO DO
SO THAN ANOTHER MOTION IS
PRESENTED A MOTION WOULD
RECONSIDER THAT MOTION AS I'VE
SUMMARIZED THIS WOULD IN FACT
UNDO THE DENIAL ONLY THE FLIGHT
PLAN IT WOULD NOT UNDO THE
DENIAL OF THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION.
USE ALLOWING THE PETITIONER TO
SUBMIT REVISED PLANS THAT WOULD
COME BACK TO CITY STAFF FOR
REVIEW AND EVALUATION AS THAT
SAY PLANNED CHANGES TO MAKE
SURE IT IS CONSISTENT WITH CITY
REGULATIONS.
AND THEN THE LAST MOTION WOULD
BE IF YOU DETERMINE THAT THAT
IS SOMETHING YOU ARE INTERESTED
IN TO POSTPONE CONSIDERATION
OF THAT UNTIL THE JUNE TWENTY
FIRST PLANNING COMMISSION
AGENDA.
AS I NOTE IN THE MEMO, THIS IS
I THINK IT IS A REASONABLE
APPROACH.
THIS WOULD SHIFT THE CRITERIA
TO MEASURING THIS AS A SITE
PLAN AGAINST THE UDC TYPICAL TO
ANY OTHER SITE AND BUT THERE
ARE NO SPECIFIC CRITERIA THIS
IS REALLY A PROCEDURAL ITEM AT
AGAIN AT THE DISCRETION OF THE
PLANNING COMMISSION AND THAT
MOTION COULD BE MADE FOR
RECONSIDERATION BY ANY ANY BODY
PRESENT HERE AS ALL OF YOU WERE
ON THE PREVAILING SIDE OF THAT
MOTION.
I'M HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
QUESTIONS.
I KNOW THAT THE SORT OF SOME
CONVOLUTED STEPS
I THINK I
UNDERSTAND WHAT THE PROCEDURES
ARE GREAT.
DON'T UNDERSTAND WHY WE WOULD
NEED TO DO IT.
WOULDN'T IT BE WOULDN'T IT JUST
TO FALL BACK TO A BODY?
RIGHT.
AND WOULDN'T THEY JUST SUBMIT A
PLAN B COULD HAVE A FUTURE.
THEY COULD DO THAT.
THEY COULD THAT THAT DECISION
COULD STAND AND THE PETITIONERS
COULD JUST ELECT TO START THE
PROCESS OVER AGAIN THAT WOULD
RESULT IN THEM FILING A NEW
APPLICATION THEN THE
APPLICATION FEE STARTING THAT
PROCESS OVER AGAIN IF THIS WAS
GRANTED RECONSIDERATION THEY
WOULD PICK UP THE EXISTING
PROJECT MIDSTREAM IF YOU WILL
OFFER THEM THE OPPORTUNITY TO
SORT OF JUST NOT TO SORT OF TO
SUBMIT A REVISED PLAN.
STAFF WOULD CONTINUE TO REVIEW
IT UNDER THE CURRENT
APPLICATION AND REPORT THAT
BACK TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION
THE ULTIMATE CONSIDERATION
WOULD BE THE SAME IN EITHER
CIRCUMSTANCE IT WOULD BE
MEASURED BY THE UDC.
SO IT'S A IT JUST IF YOU COULD
HELP ME I'LL I'LL DO A
COMMISSIONER DAESH STATEMENT
HERE STRUGGLING TO MAKE THIS
MAKE SENSE.
SO THIS IS JUST FOR FILING AND
FEES SO THIS WOULD SAVE THEM.
SO IF WE TOOK THIS UP AND
FOLLOWED THE MOTION THE WAY
THAT YOU HAVE OUTLINED IT, THEY
WOULDN'T HAVE TO START OVER
CORRECT.
BUT WE WOULD STILL SEE A NEW
SITE PLAN, CORRECT.
WE WOULD NOT BE MAKING A
DECISION BASED ON THE
PREVIOUSLY SUBMITTED SITE PLAN.
>> CORRECT.
SO IT'S JUST A COST
DIFFERENTIAL TIME WOULD TELL I
WOULD ANTICIPATE THE SITE PLAN
WILL LOOK VERY SIMILAR TO WHAT
WAS PRESENTED BEFORE SAN'S
DRIVE THRU LANES AND SOME
ADDITIONAL SUSTAINABILITY
MEASURES THAT I DON'T THINK
WOULD IMPACT THE SITE PLAN
LAYOUT.
BUT YES, YOU ARE CORRECT IN
EITHER AN EITHER STOP THE
PROCESS INTERNALLY WOULD LOOK
VERY SIMILAR TO THE PETITION OR
THE PROCESS WOULD BE MORE
COSTLY AND ONE AND I DON'T I
DON'T KNOW THE TIME AND TIMING
WOULD PROBABLY ALSO BE LONGER
AND ONE TWO BECAUSE SUBMITTAL
DEADLINES ARE ONCE A MONTH.
SO IT MIGHT ALSO CREATE A LAG
FOR A NEW SITE PLAN COULD BE
SUBMITTED UNDER OUR TYPICAL
REVIEW CYCLES AND ONE MORE
QUESTION AROUND.
SO COULD YOU OUTLINE LIKE WHAT
ARE THE STEPS?
>> SO THERE'S THIS WELL YOU
KNOW WHAT THE STEPS NOT WE'LL
TRY TO STICK THEM IN THE NEW
CITIZEN PARTICIPATION NOTICES
OUT TO ALL PROPERTY OWNERS
WITHIN FIVE HUNDRED FEET.
I THINK BASED ON THE SCALE
OF THIS PROJECT I WOULD BE A
PRETTY SUBMISSION MEETING WITH
CITY STAFF THAT'S A REQUIRED
STEP IN THIS CASE I WOULDN'T
ANTICIPATE THAT MEETING WOULD
BE VERY LONG BECAUSE MUCH
OF THAT KIND OF HAS BEEN
ALREADY IDENTIFIED THEN IT
WOULD GO THROUGH A TYPICAL
REVIEW PROCESS WHERE IT'S GOING
TO BE DISTRIBUTED TO ALL CITY
DEPARTMENTS BASED ON WHATEVER
CHANGES TO THE LAYOUT ARE
HAPPENING.
I WOULD ANTICIPATE THAT LAYOUT
IS GOING TO BE PRETTY EFFICIENT
AGAIN BECAUSE IT'S PROBABLY
REMOVING ASPECTS OF THE SITE
THAT ADD COMPLICATIONS RATHER
THAN BEING ADDITIVE AND THEN
AND THE G20 FIRST DAY IT WAS AN
ESTIMATE OF GIVING US SOME TIME
FRAME TO GO THROUGH THAT AND
GET IT BACK ON TO AGENDA
NOTICED OK, I WAS WRONG.
ONE MORE QUESTION BECAUSE YOU
JUST SAID SOMETHING WHICH IS IT
SOUNDS LIKE IF WE TAKE THIS
ACTION WE REMOVE A PUBLIC
COMMENT PERIOD WITH THE
PETITIONER IN THE COMMUNITY.
>> YOU WOULD YOU WOULD REMOVE A
NOTIFICATION OF POSTCARDS TO
ALL PROPERTY OWNERS WITHIN 500
FEET.
YOU WOULD NOT REMOVE A PUBLIC
HEARING PUBLIC HEARING I'M
SORRY.
CAN I I KNOW THERE WILL BE A
PUBLIC HEARING AT THE TABLE BUT
USUALLY THE NOTICE HAS A
PETITION OR NEIGHBORHOOD
ENGAGEMENT NOT FOR THE SCALE
OF PROJECT BECAUSE OF THE SIZE
OF PADRAIC.
>> IT'S ONLY A NOTIFICATION.
OK, SO IT WOULDN'T REQUIRE THAT
CORRECT.
SO IT WOULD HAVE REQUIRED THAT
PREVIOUSLY WITH THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION THIS PERMIT BECAUSE
THEY WOULDN'T BE CONSIDERING
THAT IT WOULD SIMPLY BE A
NOTIFICATION THAT THEY HAVE
APPLIED FOR A SITE PLAN TO THE
CITY AND THEN I'M SORRY LIKE
HAVE YOU IN YOUR CONSIDERATION
DID YOU WEIGH THAT AGAINST THE
FEEDBACK THAT HAS COME IN
BECAUSE WE'VE RECEIVED SOME 20
COMMUNICATIONS FROM COMMUNITY
MEMBERS WHO HAVE ASKED US NOT
TO RECONSIDER THIS AND TO
DECIDE TO RECONSIDER.
AND SO I JUST YEAH, MOST
OF THOSE COMMENTS CAME IN AFTER
MY RECOMMENDATION AND MY
RECOMMENDATION WOULD STAND FROM
THE CONDITIONS WOULD BE VERY
SIMILAR IN EITHER CIRCUMSTANCE.
WE'RE GOING END UP WITH A SITE
PLAN THAT IS BEING MEASURED
AGAINST THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE .
AGAIN, THERE'S NO CRITERIA HERE
THAT SAYS YOU THE
MISSION HAVE
TO DO THAT IF YOU IF A LANGUAGE
AND CHOOSES NOT TO SHOW THAT
WOULD BE THE ONLY AVENUE FOR
THE PETITIONER TO TO CONTINUE
OR THEY COULD ELECT TO JUST SAY
NO, I HAD ENOUGH BUT IN EITHER
EVENT WE GET TO THE SAME RESULT
EXCUSE ME THE SAME DECISION.
WAIT FOR A PLAN.
I'LL LET THAT GO.
YEAH.
THANK YOU.
GOOD.
>> ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS
OFFICERS PLEASE HAVE ANYTHING
TO REPORT.
>> OK SO GOOD YOU'RE GOOD AT
THIS TIME THIS IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR PERSONS TO
SPEAK FOR UP TO THREE MINUTES
MOVING ON TO PUBLIC COMMENT
ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS NOT
LISTED AS PUBLIC HEARING ON
THIS AGENDA SINCE WE HAVE NOT
AMENDED THE MOTION THE AGENDA
WITH WHAT WAS DISCUSSED
CURRENTLY IS NOT THE CURRENT
THING WOULD NOT BE PART OF THE
AGENDA THE REQUESTS FOR
PLYMOUTH ROAD SO ANY PERSONS
WISHING TO SPEAK ON THAT WOULD
BE IN HERE AS WELL.
I WAS A LITTLE FIRST CALL
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION THEN MORE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOVE A
STAR NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE
OR USE THE RIGHT HAND FEATURE
VIEWING SUITABLE I THINK FOR
PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND INTERMEDIATE ID
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF
BECAUSE OF YOUR HAND USE IN THE
LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME IF AVAILABLE
FOR THOSE EXPLICIT TO THE
PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENT THE PERSONS
LINE YOU SPEAK ON SPEAKING
PLEASE MOVE TO QUIET AND ANY
TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND SOUNDS
WE MAY HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR
EITHER METHOD OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS YOUR NAME OR COMMENTS
TO ANYONE PRESENT THAT WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME SEEN
NO ONE IS ANYONE THAT WOULD
LIKE TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY WITH ONE HAND RAISE
THAT THIS TIME RAVINA RAMASWAMY
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO SPEAK
AND ADDRESS THE COMMISSION.
>> OH MY NAME IS HELLO MY NAME
IS RAMASWAMY.
I LIVE IN BROMLEY NEIGHBORHOOD
WHICH BACKS ONTO THIS PROPOSAL
.
I DID SPEAK AT THE LAST MEETING
I ASKED THE COMMISSION TO
RECONSIDER THIS PROPOSAL AT THE
LAST MEETING OF THE MAJORITY
OF THE COMMISSIONERS VOTED
AGAINST IT NOT JUST FOR ZONING
.
THEY BROUGHT UP SOME VERY VALID
POINTS REGARDING THE FUTURE
OF OUR CITY, THE FUTURE
OF PLYMOUTH ROAD THINKING ABOUT
MULTI USE SPACES RATHER THAN A
SINGLE STOREY BUILDING THAT HAS
A COOKIE CUTTER BANK.
I THE COMMUNITY HAS REALLY
SPOKEN.
WE HAD OVER FIFTY PEOPLE IN
MULTIPLE PEOPLE COME TO THAT
MEETING AND EVEN FROM THE
ASKING NOT TO RECONSIDER WE
HAVE HAD A LOT OF PEOPLE
COMMUNITY SPEAK ON THIS.
I KNOW WE'VE HAD A LITTLE BIT
OF TIME IN THAT SHORT TIME
PEOPLE HAVE COME OUT TO REALLY
OPPOSES AND I THINK IT'S
BECAUSE WE WANT TO SEE THE
SPACE BE A SPACE WE CAN HAVE
MULTIPLE USE.
WE'RE NOT SAYING NO UMC BUT
WE'RE ASKING YOU TO CONSIDER
BUILDING A SPACE THAT HAS
MULTIPLE SPACES WITH RETAIL
HOUSING, WHATNOT WITH A BANK
NOT A THEIR COOKIE CUTTER BRAND
BUILDING WHEN WE SAY IT'S NOT
VEHICLE SPECIFIC IN MY EYES IT
IS EVEN WITHOUT TELLER BANK THE
CURRENT LOCATION IS VERY
ACCESSIBLE FOR BUS WALKING
BIKING.
WHILE THIS PROPOSED BASE IS NOT
IT YOU'D HAVE TO GO PAST THE
SPEEDWAY BANK AND WALK QUITE A
BIT.
YOU'D HAVE TO CROSS A BUSY ROAD
WITHOUT A CROSSWALK WITH THE
BUS SO THIS DOESN'T MAKE SENSE
TO ME.
STILL SOUNDS LIKE PEOPLE WOULD
HAVE TO COME BY CAR.
I'M NOT SEEING THE BENEFIT
MOVING IT FROM WHERE IT IS TO
TO THIS NEW PROPOSED LOCATION
ESPECIALLY WITHOUT TELLER
SPACE.
I'D REALLY LIKE YOU TO CONSIDER
YOU KNOW, A FIFTEEN MINUTE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
THIS IS A GREAT OPPORTUNITY TO
CREATE SOMETHING SPECIAL DOWN
PLYMOUTH ROAD AND TO REALLY
THINK ABOUT THIS MAIN CORRIDOR
WHERE PEOPLE COME INTO OUR
GREAT CITY.
WHAT WILL IT LOOK LIKE?
WHAT SERVICES CAN WE HAVE AND
WORKING PEOPLE LIVE.
SO I ASKED PERMISSION TO PLEASE
NOT RECONSIDER THE PROPOSAL AS
IT STANDS TODAY AS A SINGLE
STORY COOKIE CUTTER BRANDED
SLOPED BUILDING REGARDLESS
OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL PIECES
THEY'RE ADDING TO IT I THINK
FROM A LONG TERM TWENTY FIVE
FIFTY YEARS FROM NOW EVEN MAYBE
TWO YEARS FROM NOW WE WILL NOT
BE USING THE BANKS AS
STANDALONE BUILDINGS.
WE'RE IN A DIGITAL WORLD SO
LET'S FORWARD THINK LET'S THINK
ABOUT THE INNOVATIONS SPACE
USAGE OF OUR CITY.
>> THANK YOU.
ONE MORE CALLER HAS RAISED
THEIR HAND.
ALEX LOWE PERMISSION TO SPEAK.
>> HI THIS IS ALEX CALLING IN
FROM SOUTH SE YOU STAND UP AND
I JUST WANT TO SAY FOR YOU WHEN
YOU COME BACK WITH YOUR NEW
PLAN, PLEASE TAKE HIS FEEDBACK
INTO ACCOUNT.
YOU KNOW, BIT BANK OF AMERICA
YOU'RE NOT CHASE PLOPPING DOWN
IDENTICAL BUT BUILDINGS ALL
OVER THE COUNTRY YOU'RE YOU'RE
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
CREDIT UNION, YOUR COMMUNITY
OWNED YOU ARE FOCUSED ON AND DO
DO THE ANNABETH THING HERE.
WE KNOW THAT THE SITE IS GOING
TO BE ONE AT SOME POINT.
WHY DON'T YOU GET AHEAD OF THAT
MAKE IT A MAKE IT A POLITICAL
ONE AS A SHOW PEOPLE WHAT WHAT
WHAT WHAT WHAT WHAT CAN LOOK
LIKE AND SHOW PEOPLE THAT SEE
YOU IS FORWARD THINKING AND NOT
STUCK IN THE 1950S.
THANK YOU
.
I DO WANT ANYONE ELSE TO OTHER
CALLERS HAVE RAISED THEIR
HANDS.
BRANDON DEMCHUK, IF YOU HAVE
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING MISSION >> RIGHT.
THIS IS BRANDON JEFF CALLING IN
FROM LARRY COWAN IN WARD FOUR.
I ALSO WOULD VERY MUCH LIKE TO
SEE THIS NOT BE JUST A SIMPLE
BANK AND BUILDING THAT WOULD
ACTUALLY HAVE MORE TO USE SINCE
I WORRY THAT WE ARE KIND OF TOO
LATE FOR THAT POINT AND I THINK
LIKE THIS REALLY EMPHASIZES WHY
WE NEED TO CONSIDER APPLYING 51
TO THESE CORRIDORS AS QUICKLY
AS POSSIBLE AND I HAVE OF THESE
USES THAT I THINK MANY OF US
AGREE ARE UNDESIRABLE SHOWING
UP IN AREAS THAT WE ARE SOON
GOING TO DISALLOW THIS SORT
OF SO I WOULD LIKE TO ENCOURAGE
PLANNING COMMISSION TO YOU
KNOW, REALLY, REALLY THINK
ABOUT IT.
I GET THAT THE REST OF THE
CORRIDOR IS ZONED AND AS SOON
AS POSSIBLE I THINK YOU CAN
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS CHRISTINA
WATKINS.
YOU PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION?
>> THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS CHRISTINA WATKINS.
I RESIDE TWO NINE SIX ZERO
SHEFFIELD FOR APPROXIMATELY A
QUARTER MILE FROM THE PROPOSED
SITE.
I WOULD JUST LIKE TO REITERATE
WHAT OTHER CALLERS AND WHAT
OTHER RESIDENTS LETTERS HAVE
ALREADY STATED WHICH IS WE'D
REALLY HOPE THAT UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN CREDIT UNION DOES
TAKE INTO ACCOUNT ANN ARBOR
ZERO INITIATIVE AND THE FACT
THAT WE ARE AIMING TO CREATE A
FIFTEEN MINUTE NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE WANT MULTIUSE USE BUILDINGS
WE DO NOT WANT SINGLE USE
SINGLE STORY BUILDINGS
ESPECIALLY SO CLOSE TO A
COMMUNITY POOL AT SCHOOL.
SO WE DO HOPE TO SEE A BETTER
PROPOSAL NEXT TIME.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THERE ARE NO OTHER HANDS
RAISED AT THIS TIME.
THANK YOU.
>> NEXT WE MOVE ON TO PUBLIC
HEARINGS.
NEXT BUSINESS MEETING TO BE A
PUBLIC HEARING SCHEDULED FOR
NEXT BUSINESS MEETING YES AT
THE TUESDAY MAY 2ND PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETING WHICH WILL
BE AT SEVEN P.M. THERE WILL BE
A PUBLIC HEARING FOR NINE NINE
NINE MAIDEN LANE, A SITE PLAN
AND REZONING FOR CITY COUNCIL
APPROVAL.
THIS PROJECT INCLUDES A
REZONING PETITION TO AMEND THE
CONDITIONS OF THE C ONE ACRE
CAMPUS BUSINESS RESIDENTIAL
WITH CONDITIONS ZONING
DESIGNATION BY REMOVING THE
CONDITION THAT THE PROPERTY
SHALL ONLY BE DEVELOPED AS THE
ELEVEN FORTY BROADWAY PLAN
PROJECT SITE PLAN AS MAYBE
ADMINISTRATIVELY AMENDED AND
QUOTE BECAUSE TWO OF THE THREE
APPROVED BUILDINGS HAVE BEEN
CONSTRUCTED AND A SITE PLAN
APPLICATION TO CONSTRUCT A ONE
HUNDRED AND EIGHTY THOUSAND TWO
HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT SEVEN
STOREY RESIDENTIAL BUILDING ON
THE BUILDING B SIDE OF THE
BEEKMAN BROADWAY DEVELOPMENT
REPLACING THE PREVIOUSLY
BUILDING WITH SIMILAR
DIMENSIONS IN THIS LOCATION THE
ZONING DISTRICT AND DEVELOPMENT
SIDE ARE SIX POINT FOUR ACRES
AND BUILDING B SITE IS ONE
POINT FOUR ACRES.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON, THERE'S NO
UNFINISHED BUSINESS IN LESS AT
THIS TIME.
ANYONE WANTS TO MOVE FOR A
PREVIOUS AGENDA ITEMS OTHER
JUST PROCEDURAL CLARIFICATION
SO WOULD THIS BE THE TIME TO
MAKE A MOTION TO RECONSIDER MR.
LEONARD?
>> YEAH, YOU COULD MAKE THAT
MUCH NOW.
IT WOULD IT IT COULD HAPPEN AT
ANY POINT IN THE AGENDA PRIOR
TO COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS.
THE BYLAWS WOULD NOT PERMIT YOU
TO
TAKE ACTION ON ANY PETITION
DURING COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS BUT THIS WOULD BE AN
APPROPRIATE TIME IF IF THE PLAN
IN QUESTION DESIRES WOULD IT BE
APPROPRIATE FOR STILL STILL
HAVE A DISCUSSION IN THIS
PERIOD OF TIME?
>> YOU GUYS ARE OPEN TO HAVING
A DISCUSSION.
I WOULD PROPOSE THAT YOU MAKE
THE MOTION TO ADD AN AMENDMENT
TO THE AGENDA THAT WOULD BE A
FORUM FOR THE DISCUSSION AND
THEN IF BASED ON THAT
DISCUSSION YOU CHOOSE NOT TO
THAT VOTE WOULD BE THE OUTCOME
OF THAT.
OK, THEN I'LL MAKE THAT MOTION
.
SO THIS WOULD BE A MOTION TO
ADD I GUEST ITEM LET'S CALL IT
NOW AND BE POTENTIALLY OTHER
BUSINESS UH RECONSIDERATION
OF TWENTY NINE TWENTY NINE
PLYMOUTH.
>> YEP.
YES THE MOVE BY PREMATURELY
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER WAITES
.
>> WHAT ARE YOUR QUESTIONS.
WHY CONSIDERATION.
>> OH YEAH SO I WE'RE OPEN FOR
DISCUSSION OR OK OK I JUST WANT
TO BETTER UNDERSTAND BECAUSE
BECAUSE I HEAR EVERYBODY AND
WE'RE OBVIOUSLY GETTING A LOT
OF PUBLIC COMMENT ABOUT THIS AS
WELL SO TO BE CLEAR THIS IS
CURRENTLY MY OWN OFFICE, MY
CORRECT CORRECT.
SO THE KIND OF USE WE WOULD
HAVE EFFI OUR LIMITATIONS WE
WOULDN'T BE CONSTRAINED BY
HEIGHT BUT WE'D BE CONSTRAINED
BY FSR IF THEY WERE TO PROCEED
TO TRY AND REDESIGN FOR A
TISSUE ONE TYPE DEVELOPMENT
CORRECT OFFICES IF THEY'RE
REGULATED OR NOT REGULATED.
>> OK, SO IN ESSENCE WHAT WE
ARE ASKING THEM TO DO IS TO SAY
OR AT LEAST WHAT WHAT I HEARD
THE LAST COMMENT OR ASK FOR
SPECIFICALLY WAS PLEASE TRY TO
REDESIGN FOR ONE WHICH IS NOT
CURRENTLY THE ZONE WE TO BE AN
ACCURATE STATEMENT SO THERE'S A
LOT OF DISCUSSION.
I'VE WHAT I HEARD FROM THE
COMMISSION AS PART OF THE
FINDINGS OF DENIAL OF THE
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE WAS THAT
THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE
REQUIRES CONSISTENT C WITH THE
CITY'S COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND I
THINK COMMISSIONER SO THEY HAD
SORT OF ACTUALLY DURING THAT
DELIBERATION KICKED IT OFF,
KICKED OFF THIS THIS ITEM AND
OTHER COMMISSIONERS IT
RESONATED FROM MY RECOLLECTION
THAT GRANTING THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE FOR DRIVE THRU
LANES THERE WAS INCONSISTENT
WITH OUR GOALS FOR EVOLVING.
THIS IS A TRANSIT CORRIDOR.
THE USE OF TAKE ON OTHER ITEMS.
THERE'S A LOT OF OTHER
DISCUSSION ABOUT
SUSTAINABILITY, ABOUT QUESTIONS
ABOUT THE SITE DEVELOPMENT.
BUT FROM MY LENS I THOUGHT THAT
WAS PARTICULARLY RELEVANT TO
THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION STANDARDS
AND THE DENIAL OF THAT
OF COURSE CAME HAND IN HAND
THEN WITH THE SITE PLAN THAT
REFLECT THE DRIVE THRU LANES
THAT ONCE THAT SPECIAL ACCESS
EXCEPTION THESE STANDARDS ARE
FOUND THEN THAT SITE PLAN WAS
NO LONGER COMPLIANT WITH WITH
THOSE STANDARDS.
SO THAT'S THOSE ARE THE
FINDINGS I CONSIDERED.
OF COURSE NOW THE PETITIONER IS
REQUESTING NOT RECONSIDERATION
,NO SPECIAL EXCEPTION.
THE SITE PLANNED FOR MORE TIME
TO AMEND THE SITE PLAN TO
REFLECT OF OUR CURRENT CODES
SPECIFICALLY REMOVING THEROUX'S
OF COURSE AND THEN ALSO THE
LETTER INDICATES HEATING THE
BUILDING WITHOUT NATURAL GAS
BUT ALTERNATIVELY THEY COULD
SEEK TO SEE ONE ZONING.
THEY COULD REDESIGN SOMETHING
ELSE UNDER THE OFFICE DISTRICT
TOO MUCH OR ANSWERING YOUR
QUESTION OH NO.
>> I THINK THAT ANSWERS MY
QUESTION.
THANK YOU.
UH, I I WANT TO SPEAK FROM A
PRACTICAL STANDPOINT FOLLOWING
UP ON COMMISSIONER WYTCHES LINE
OF AT LEAST QUESTIONING AND
INQUIRING ABOUT THIS PARTICULAR
TOPIC.
LET'S SAY THAT BEGAN
POSTULATING THAT WE DON'T HEAR
THIS OR IT GETS VOTED DOWN
ESSENTIALLY THE RECONSIDERATION
THEREOF WOULD JUST HINDRANCE
AND ANNOYANCE FOR THE
PETITIONER.
>> WOULD THEY BRING IT BACK
BASICALLY JUST HAVING PAID THE
FEES AGAIN.
SO I JUST I'M TRYING TO BETTER
UNDERSTAND FROM A PRACTICAL
STANDPOINT WHAT ARE OUR OPTIONS
HERE SO I JUST TRY TO
UNDERSTAND AGAIN PRACTICALLY
WHAT WHAT DECISION WE'RE FACED
WITH.
>> YEAH, I WANT TO BE CLEAR.
I HAVEN'T GONE THAT DEPTH
OF UNDERSTANDING WITH THE
PETITIONS THAT THE COMMISSION
WOULD LIKE TO DISCUSS THAT
YOU'RE WELCOME TO I THINK
PRACTICALLY SPEAKING AGAIN, I
THINK THAT I FEEL LIKE THE
PETITIONERS HEARD SOME OF THE
CONCERNS THAT WERE RAISED BY
THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
I RECOGNIZE THAT NOT ALL OF THE
CONCERNS THAT WERE RAISED A
PLANNING COMMISSION NOR ALL
OF THE CONCERNS THAT HAVE BEEN
RAISED BY THE COMMENTS
SUBSEQUENT TO THAT IN ANY IN
EITHER CIRCUMSTANCE CONSIDERING
THIS PLAN DEVOID OF A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION IS GOING TO BE A
PERMITTED USE IN THE OFFICE
DISTRICT SUBJECT TO THOSE
REGULATIONS IF IT IS NOT
RECONSIDERED AND THE PETITIONER
CHOOSES TO FILE A NEW SITE PLAN
,THAT SAME CONDITION WILL
APPLY.
SO FROM MY RUNS THE PETITIONER
HAS IS OFFERING SOME
SUSTAINABILITY PROVISIONS THAT
ARE ABOVE AND BEYOND FOR
EXAMPLE WHAT THE MINIMUM
REQUIREMENTS ARE OF THE CODE .
I HAVEN'T GONE TO THE DEPTH TO
SAY THAT THOSE WOULD GO AWAY IF
WE STARTED OVER OR FROM FROM
THAT PERSPECTIVE.
BUT THAT'S MY PREMISE THAT I
THINK IT'S REASONABLE TO
CONTINUE EVALUATION OF THIS
SITE PLAN FOR SOME OF THOSE
REASONS.
GOTCHA.
SO THIS MIGHT BE AN OPPORTUNITY
TO TRY AND I DON'T WANT TO USE
THE WORD LEVERAGE BUT TO SAY
THAT WE BETTER UNDERSTAND THEIR
COMMITMENTS TO SUSTAINABILITY.
I THINK THAT THAT'S WHAT
THEY'RE SAYING IN THAT LETTER
THAT THEY'RE INTERESTED IN
PRESENTING MORE OF THAT
COMMITMENT AS PART OF A PROJECT
CALLED IS IT APPROPRIATE FOR ME
TO ASK THE PETITIONER TO GIVE
ME AN IDEA OF AN OK QUESTION
ASK AT THIS TIME I JUST WANT TO
HEAR FROM THEM ESSENTIALLY WHAT
THEY'RE THINKING.
YEAH, I'M FINE WITH THAT THIS
TIME.
>> SO WHAT ARE YOU GUYS
THINKING FROM LIKE AGAIN
PRACTICALLY IF THIS DOESN'T GET
RECONSIDERED YOU GUYS JUST
GOING TO SUBMIT ANOTHER SITE
PLAN SAYING HEY, I'M GOING
RIGHT.
SO IT'S JUST GOING TO COST ME
MORE TIME AND MONEY BUT THIS IS
GOING TO HAPPEN LIKE I GUESS
I'M TRYING TO BETTER UNDERSTAND
WHAT SURE.
>> THANK YOU FOR THAT.
SO YES, WE WE WOULD ARE STILL
INTERESTED IN BUILDING ON THE
PROPERTY THAT WE OWN SO WE
PROBABLY WOULD SUBMIT A NEW
APPLICATION IF THAT'S THE THE
DIRECTION WE NEED TO GO.
WE HAVE A LONG CONVERSATION
WITH YOUR STAFF AS WELL AS OUR
TEAM FOR OPTIONS AND JUST TO
SAVE EVERYONE IN TIME AND WE
JUST FELT LIKE IT MIGHT BE MORE
APPROPRIATE TO GO THIS ROUTE.
WE ARE WE DID HEAR THE
COMMISSIONER WE ARE LISTENING
TO THE THE MEMBERS OF THE
COMMUNITY WHICH IS WHY WE HAVE
ELECTED TO REMOVE THE SPECIAL
USE THAT WE WERE ATTEMPTED FOR
EVEN THOUGH WE FELT IT WAS PART
OF OUR BUSINESS MODEL AND WITH
A SYSTEM OF OUR MEMBERS WITH
EITHER HANDICAPPED OR OTHER
OTHER NEEDS THAT THEY HAVE FOR
WANTING TO CHOOSE A DRIVE
THROUGH IN ADDITION TO
EVALUATING OTHER SUSTAINABILITY
OPTIONS IN ADDITION TO THE ONE
THAT WAS POINTED AS FAR AS
HITTING IT WITH NATURAL GAS SO
DOES THAT ANSWER IT?
IT DOES.
IT SEEMS LIKE YOU GUYS WOULD
BRING FORTH IF THIS WAS NOT UP
FOR RECONSIDERATION YOU GUYS
WOULD JUST SIMPLY BRING IT BACK
UNDER ANOTHER APPLICATION.
IS THAT ACCURATE SUMMATION?
>> THAT WOULD BE ACCURATE, YES.
OKAY, GOTCHA.
AND I GUESS I WOULD LIKE TO
JUST KIND OF HONE IN ON ONE
OF THE THINGS YOU SAID HERE
WHICH WAS WE'VE LISTENED TO THE
COMMUNITY AND ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT THEY JUST SPOKE ABOUT I
THINK, YOU KNOW, FIVE, TEN
MINUTES AGO WAS A FIFTEEN
MINUTE NEIGHBORHOOD ADDITIONAL
BENEFITS.
>> YOU KNOW, AGAIN FROM ACCESS
OF MAGNETIZATION
OF NEIGHBORHOOD AND
CONNECTIVITY AND POROSITY.
SO JUST I WANT TO BETTER
UNDERSTAND, YOU KNOW, OTHER
THAN THAT DRIVE THROUGH WHETHER
THOSE KINDS OF COMMENTS WHAT
YOU WOULD SAY TO THE COMMENTER
THAT JUST SPOKE, ALEX AND ONE
OF THE THINGS WE HAD DISCUSSED
JUST TO GIVE AN EXAMPLE AND
OF COURSE WE HAVEN'T GONE
THROUGH ACTUALLY WE ARE LOOKING
AT WE HAVE REGULAR DESIGN
MEETINGS SO AS A GROUP WE
HAVEN'T COMPLETELY FULLY TALKED
ABOUT THIS IN DESIGN YET.
BUT WHAT WOULD IT LOOK LIKE IF
WE ADDED, YOU KNOW, ANY SORT
OF BENCH OR KIND OF PARK AREA
ON OUR SPACE SOMEWHERE?
WE DID THAT AT OUR CARPENTER
LOCATION WE ADDED BECAUSE THEY
WERE TRYING TO DO MORE
WALKABILITY AND THEY HAVE BUS
STOPS.
A LOT OF PEOPLE COMMUTE VIA NOT
BE KILLER MEANS AND SO WE ADDED
BENCH BENCHES AND KIND OF A A
NICE RESTING PLACE FOR PEOPLE
THAT THEY COULD JUST KIND
OF SIT AND WATCH PEOPLE WATCH
OR I JUST WANT TO REST AND WAIT
FOR THE THE BUS TO A LITTLE BIT
FURTHER AWAY.
SO WE WERE LOOKING AT SOME
OF THOSE DISCUSSING SOME
OF THOSE OPTIONS AS WELL.
>> UNDERSTOOD.
AND PLEASE REMIND ME WHAT IS
THE CURRENT USE OF THE SITE IN
THE UTILIZATION OF THAT OFFICE
BUILDING RIGHT NOW AS IT STANDS
AS YOU GUYS THE OWNER AS FAR AS
LIKE SQUARE FOOTAGE IS WHAT
YOU'RE OH WHAT'S THE BUILDING
BEING USED FOR RIGHT NOW?
>> IS IT OCCUPIED?
IS THE CARPENTER ROAD OR OH NO
I'M SORRY THE TWENTY NINE
TWENTY NINE YES IT IS CURRENTLY
EMPTY SPACE IT IS EMPTY IT'S
FAKE AND IT IS A PARKING LOT OK
YEAH.
GOTCHA.
UNDERSTOOD.
JUST WANTED TO AGAIN BETTER
UNDERSTAND KIND OF WHAT
DECISION WE'RE FACED WITH
WHETHER ALL WE'RE DOING IS
DELAYING I GUESS WHAT YOU GUYS
WILL BRING FORTH AGAIN FOR BY
RIGHT CONSIDERATION I THINK I
SET UP THIS IN THE LAST MEETING
OR WHEN WE REVISE ITS REVIEW
THAT IS THE FIRST TIME FROM
STORMWATER RETENTION COMING
BRING THAT UP.
THE STANDARDS I SAW AS A PUBLIC
BENEFIT ELECTRIFICATION WOULD
BE A PUBLIC BENEFIT AND I THINK
CONSIDERATION OF EVEN MAYBE A
TRIANGULAR DEDICATION
CUT
THROUGH PASSED WITH SOME GREEN
TREES THAT WOULD ALLOW FOR
BETTER CONNECTIVITY WITH BUS
STOP WOULD BE SOMETHING THAT I
WOULD FIND MORE COMFORT DOING.
BUT I THINK IT WAS JUST HELPFUL
FOR ME TO HEAR BECAUSE I
HAVEN'T MADE UP MY MIND YET
ABOUT THE WAY THIS IS GOING.
I KNOW I THINK I'M LOOKING AT,
YOU KNOW, THE REST OF THE
COMMISSIONERS.
I THINK I THINK OF BUT THEY'RE
LIKELY GOING TO GO WITH THIS.
BUT I WANTED TO AT LEAST GIVE
DUE PROCESS AND LISTEN TO ALL
OF THE PARTIES INVOLVED.
SO THANK YOU.
YEAH, OF COURSE I'LL YIELD MY
TIME BECAUSE I THINK I HAVE AN
UNDERSTANDING OF WHAT'S
HAPPENING.
SO I'LL I'LL DEFER TO MY OTHER
COMMISSIONER.
THANKS FOR WAIT.
JUST A CLARIFICATION.
BOTH THE SITE AND WITH WHAT IS
THE NEW SITE AND ALSO INCLUDE
THE DIVISION OF THE PROPERTY
AND DOES THAT STOP AT THE
PLANNING TABLE?
DOES THAT GO TO COUNCIL?
I WAS TRYING TO LOOK IT UP IN
THE UDC BUT I COULDN'T FIND IT
THE CONDITION OF SIPKIN
APPROVAL SO EFFECTIVELY THE
PLANNING COMMISSION WOULD BE
ADDING THAT CONDITION WHEN THE
ACTUALLY CAN BE APPROVED
ADMINISTRATIVELY IN CASE OR THE
CONDITION OF ANY SITE PLAN
APPROVAL BASED ON THE
ARRANGEMENT OF THE SITE AND
WHAT'S THE PROVISION OF THAT
AND CONFLICTING USE BUFFER UM
IS THAT GOING TO LOCK THAT
SITE?
TIME WILL TELL THE ORDINANCE
PROVISIONS COMMITTEE WILL BE
LOOKING AT CONFLICTING LAND USE
BUFFER LANGUAGE BUT CURRENTLY
IF THAT LOT IS SPLIT AND
RESIDENTIAL USES WOULD BECOME
PRESENT NEXT TO IT, THEN THE
CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFER
WOULD IN THAT CASE APPLY BOTH
TO THE NORTH AND TO THE WEST SO
IT WOULD MAKE THE PARCEL VERY
CHALLENGING TO DEVELOP.
>> SO I WOULD LIKE ALMOST FORCE
IT INTO A PUDI PROBABLY NOT AS
MUCH AS IMPACTS ARE FOR THE
DEVELOPMENT BUT IT WOULD IT
WOULD REMOVE SOME SOME
BUILDABLE AREA.
>> OK, SO THIS IS A PROBLEM
OF THE OF THE UDC AND WHERE WE
SIT NOT NECESSARILY AN ISSUE
WITH THE PETITIONER.
>> SO THEY THEY BOUGHT THE LAND
THE LAND ZONED HOW WE'VE OWNED
IT THEY THEY'RE BRINGING A SITE
PLAN THAT MATCHES THE ZONING
AND WE ARE REALIZING OH THAT'S
NOT REALLY WHAT WE WOULD LOVE
TO HAVE THERE BUT WE HAVEN'T
DONE THE WORK TO SAY WHAT WE
WANT THERE.
SO WE'RE IN THIS I THINK
SOMEONE ADEQUATELY CALLED IT AN
INFLECTION POINT WHERE WE ARE
RUNNING INTO THE AGE OF OUR UDC
OR THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE
WHICH INFORMS THE UDC HOWEVER
WE MATCH THOSE TERMS AND AND
THAT'S REALLY WHAT WE'RE KIND
OF STRUGGLING WITH BECAUSE
OTHERWISE THIS IS JUST BIKE
RIGHT.
SO WE ALL WE'RE REALLY DECIDING
IS DO WE WANT THEM TO START
OVER OR NOT?
AND JUST PERSONALLY IF THAT'S
ALL WE'RE DECIDING, I DON'T
THINK IT MAKES SENSE TO FORCE
THEM TO START OVER PERSONALLY
BUT I THINK THIS GETS TO A
LARGER ISSUE WHICH IS THE
NEIGHBORS IN A VERY AGREEABLE
WAY DON'T WANT A SINGLE STORY
SINGLE USE DEVELOPMENT HERE.
THEY COMMUNICATED THAT TO US.
>> DO WE HAVE A TOOL TO REMEDY
THAT AND HOW WOULD THAT
INTERSECT WITH THIS PETITION?
>> SO I THINK THE WAY THAT
YOU'VE SUMMARIZED IT I WOULD I
AGREE WITH I THINK THAT THAT'S
A THAT'S A GREAT OVERVIEW TO
THE QUESTION.
THAT'S A QUESTION THAT I JUST
WANT TO BE HONEST.
I'M WRESTLING WITH AND WE ARE
WRESTLING WITH THE A LOT
OF THERE'S A LOT OF ASPECTS TO
THAT.
OBVIOUSLY WE HAVE REZONE SOME
CORRIDORS TO TAKE ONE.
WE'VE NOT YET HAD DEVELOPMENT
PROPOSALS ON THOSE SUBSEQUENT
TO THAT CITY COUNCIL HAS
SPECIFICALLY DIRECTED US TO
MAKE SOME MODIFICATIONS TO THE
TAXI ONE THAT IS WE'VE HAD SOME
CONVERSATIONS AT THIS TABLE
ABOUT MAKING THOSE CHANGES AND
MODIFICATIONS SO THAT AS THAT
DISTRICT EXPANDS TO OTHER AREAS
OF THE CITY WE HAVE ADDRESSED
THOSE CONCERNS.
THERE WAS SOME CONCERNS AT AT
THE REZONING OF THE STADIUM
CORRIDOR.
THERE WAS CONCERN AT THE
COUNCIL LEVEL ABOUT WHETHER TO
REZONE THAT.
BUT FOR THESE DIRECTIVES THAT
THEY HAD THAT THE CITY COUNCIL
DIRECTED THE PLANNING
COMMISSION TO LOOK AT YOU'RE
SEEING THE FIRST OF THOSE THIS
EVENING.
THERE'S ANOTHER PIECE OF THAT
WHICH IS THE RIGHT OF WAY.
SO WE ARE ATTEMPTING TO FROM MY
PERSPECTIVE WE NEED TO ADDRESS
THOSE CHANGES SO THAT WHEN THE
TCW DISTRICT STARTS GETTING
ADDED TO OTHER QUARTERS IN THE
CITY IT IS DONE WITH THE
CONSENT OF BOTH OF THIS BODY
AND THE CITY COUNCIL THAT IT IS
AN APPROPRIATE DISTRICT FOR
THOSE AREAS.
AND SO I THINK THAT THE
FRUSTRATIONS FROM THE NEIGHBORS
IN THIS CASE IS THAT THAT WORK
HAS NOT GONE FAST ENOUGH TO BE
AT A POSITION WHERE THAT'S DONE
TODAY.
YEAH, OK.
AND QUESTIONED IT.
>> YEAH THINK SO.
BUT I REALLY LIKED YOUR
QUESTION COMMISSIONER WHICH
WHICH WAS DO WE HAVE ANY TOOLS
TO GET SOMETHING CLOSER TO WHAT
WE WISH IT WOULD BE OR NOT WE
SO WE HAVE AN OBLIGATION UNDER
THIS TEST TO CONSIDER THE SITE
PLAN.
>> WELL WE DON'T HAVE ANY
OBLIGATION TO CONSIDER THE SITE
PLAN BUT IF ANY SITE PLAN COMES
IN WE HAVE AN OBLIGATION TO
MEASURE THAT AGAINST THE UDC.
SO I WOULD SAY IN SHORT WE
DON'T HAVE TOOLS.
WE CANNOT FORCE THIS APPLICANT
TO APPLY TO REZONE THEIR
PROPERTY TO TAKE ONE THE CITY
COUNCIL OR THE PLANNING
COMMISSION COULD ELECT TO
REZONE INITIATE A REZONING
OF THAT QUARTER OR THIS
PROPERTY.
BUT AGAIN, THE MESSAGING THAT I
HAVE HEARD FROM OUR
POLICYMAKERS IN THE DIRECTION
THAT YOU HAVE RECEIVED IS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION IS THAT WE
WANT TO SEE CHANGES TO THAT
DISTRICT BEFORE IT GOES FORWARD
AND AND I AM EMPHASIZING THAT
THAT CAME OUT OF SOME
UNCERTAINTY AT THE APPLICATION
OF THAT DISTRICT TO THE STADIUM
ROAD CORRIDOR AND SO
REPLICATING THAT UNCERTAINTY
BEFORE THOSE QUESTIONS ARE
ANSWERED FROM MYLAN'S DOESN'T
SEEM LIKE THE APPROPRIATE PATH.
I UNDERSTAND THAT THAT DOESN'T
SATISFY ALL URGENCY AND THERE
MIGHT BE DIFFERING PERSPECTIVES
ON THAT FOR SURE.
>> BUT THAT'S HOW I AM
APPROACHING IT AS THE PLANNING
MANAGER.
SO I GUESS WHAT I WOULD SAY IS
THAT I APPRECIATE THAT THE
PETITIONER IS LISTENING TO THE
SUSTAINABILITY TO THE ENERGY
EFFICIENCY CONCERNS THAT WERE
RAISED IN THE LAST DISCUSSION.
>> UM, AND AT BASE I THINK THE
OBJECTION TO THIS PROJECT
BEYOND THE DRIVE THROUGH WHICH
WAS A SIGNIFICANT ELEMENT THAT
WAS BECAUSE IT IS A TRIP
INTENSIVE I BELIEVE WAS THE
TERM WE USED LAST TIME.
IT'S VERY MUCH AT ODDS.
UH, WITH THE DESIRE FOR MORE
WALKABLE CITY.
BUT THE OTHER FEATURE OF A MORE
WALKABLE CITY OR ONE OTHER KEY
FEATURE OF A MORE WALKABLE CITY
IS DENSE EFFICIENT USE OF LAND
AND THIS IS NOT THAT AND SO IF
YOU REALLY WANTED TO HEAR US IN
MY FANTASY, WHAT WOULD COME
BACK IS A TWO STORY PROJECT
BECAUSE YOU WANT TO HAVE A BANK
AND YOU WANT TO HAVE A
CONFERENCE CENTER AND YOU WANT
TO HAVE A PLACE WHERE YOU CAN
COUNSEL PEOPLE ON HOW TO GET
LOANS.
THESE WERE THINGS THAT IF I'M
REMEMBERING YOU TALKED ABOUT
WHICH I THOUGHT WERE LAUDABLE
CAN'T THAT BE DONE IN TWO
STORIES AND WITH A LESS OF A
FOOTPRINT AND WITH LESS YOU
KNOW, WITH NOT SO LARGE OF A
SETBACK?
UM, THAT'S ONE OF OUR CONCERNS
IS THAT THE MORE THINGS THAT WE
GET ON THIS CORRIDOR THAT ARE
THAT HAVE LARGE SETBACKS, THE
HARDER IT IS FOR IT TO BE A
PLACE WHERE PEOPLE GENUINELY
WANT TO WALK BECAUSE IT JUST
FEELS WEIRD EVEN IF YOU'RE NOT
WALKING IN FRONT OF A HUGE
PARKING LOT IT FEELS WEIRD TO
WALK IN FRONT OF A HUGE FIELD
OF GRASS SO THAT AND OBVIOUSLY
I CAN'T ALL I CAN SAY IS THAT
THAT'S WHAT I THINK IS LAYING
AT THE BASE OF THIS IS THIS
DESIRE FOR DENSER, MORE
EFFICIENT USE OF LAND.
AND THAT DOESN'T MAKE SENSE TO
ME BECAUSE WE ARE A VERY BUILT
OUT CITY AND WE ARE A VERY
EXPENSIVE CITY AND WE DON'T
WANT TO BE AN EXPENSIVE CITY
BECAUSE AN EXPENSIVE CITY IS AN
EXCLUSIONARY CITY AND SO YOU'RE
ASKING TO USE A LOT OF LAND TO
DO NOT VERY MUCH IN THE
NEIGHBORS EYES.
RIGHT.
IT'S ONE THING IT'S ONE THING
THAT THEY SEE A LOT OF ON THE
CORRIDOR SO I TAKE YOUR POINT,
COMMISSIONER, RIGHT.
THAT IT SEEMS THE WORDS THAT
ARE COMING TO MIND
ARE SO
JUDGMENTAL THAT I DON'T WANT TO
USE ANY OF THEM BUT THAT THAT
POINT LOSS IS GOOD, OK?
IT SEEMS POINTLESS MERELY TO
REFUSE TO RECONSIDER SO THAT
THIS MIGHT TAKE A MONTH OR SIX
WEEKS LONGER AND THE PETITIONER
HAS TO PAY ANOTHER FEW WILL
SEEM VERY NICE.
BUT ON THE OTHER HAND I DON'T
KNOW THAT I WANT TO MAKE IT
EASIER TO BUILD SOMETHING THAT
ISN'T A DENSE AND EFFICIENT USE
OF LAND IN A PLACE THAT IS VERY
BUILT UP AND WHERE THE BUILDING
UP WITH THAT CONDITION THAT WE
ARE ALL WORKING UNDER IS REALLY
HAVING SIGNIFICANT CONSEQUENCES
FOR PEOPLE'S PRINCIPLES.
SO I AM TORN FOR DISCUSSION ON
THE MOTION ABOUT WOMEN IN
GENERAL.
SO I JUST WANT TO COME BACK TO
THE TOOL QUESTION THAT I THINK
I OR MAYBE COMMISSIONER JUST
TOOK IT OVER SO I DON'T KNOW
WHO TO GET WHO TO GIVE CREDIT
TO SO IT I THINK THE CHALLENGE
I AGREE THAT THE MOTION TO
RECONSIDER PROBABLY MAKES SENSE
BECAUSE IT DOESN'T MAKE A LOT
OF SENSE TO JUST FORCE IT BACK
TO THE PIECE.
BUT THE QUESTION THAT I WAS
ASKING ABOUT THE TOOL IS NOT
EXCLUSIVE TO MAKING A ZONING
CHANGE.
RIGHT BECAUSE WE COULD PROPOSE
ZONING CHANGE AND THEN GO
THROUGH THE PROCESS OF ZONING
CHANGE.
BUT THAT MIGHT BE TO SPOT
ZONING.
SO I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE RULES
ARE AROUND THAT TYPE
OF APPARATUS BUT DO WE HAVE
INCENTIVES AT THIS POINT?
ARE THERE FEES THAT COULD BE
WAIVED?
ARE THERE THINGS THAT COULD BE
EXPEDITED THAT INCENTIVIZE THE
PETITIONER TO REALIZE WHAT WE
ARE HEARING FROM THE COMMUNITY
AND WHAT SOME SENSE AT THE
TABLE IS INDICATING?
SO IT'S OFFICE AND RESIDENTIAL
IS PERMITTED IN OFFICE.
I COULDN'T FIND OUT THAT OTHER
THAN THE VA HOW MUCH
RESIDENTIAL THEY COULD DO OTHER
THINGS WHERE IF THE PETITIONER
WERE AGREEABLE TO CONSIDER WE
HAVE INSIDE THE CITY TO MAKE
THEIR DEVELOPMENT IN THE WORK
THAT THEY'RE DOING EASIER FOR
THEM AND IT HELPS THE
NEIGHBORHOOD BECAUSE I THINK
WHAT I'M JUST TRYING TO ASSESS
IS IS THERE A WIN WIN HERE?
>> THE PETITIONER ALREADY HAS
THE PROPERTY.
IT'S ALREADY ZONED THEY HAVE
EVERY RIGHT TO BUILD WHAT WE
HAVE TOLD THEM IS PERMITTED
THERE PERIOD AND OTHER TOOLS
WHERE WE CAN SAY IF YOU BUILT
THIS, THIS MIGHT GO BETTER.
THERE ARE THINGS THAT ARE
COMING IN THE DEVELOPMENT THAT
IF YOU WERE TO CONSIDER WE
COULD MOVE AROUND.
I DON'T KNOW.
THAT'S WHAT I MEANT BY A TOOL
NOT JUST A UDC CHANGE BECAUSE I
UNDERSTAND WE WE CAN'T AFFECT A
UDC CHANGE IN THE MIDST OF THIS
BECAUSE THAT WOULD PROBABLY
OPEN US UP TO SOME LEGAL
CHALLENGES.
IN SHORT, I'M NOT AWARE OF THAT
SCHOOL BUT I I WOULD SAY THAT
THE PETITIONER'S YOU'RE ASKING
FOR AN ACCOMMODATION THEY'VE
ALREADY PROVIDED SOME BEYOND
MINIMUM'S OR MODIFICATIONS.
I FEEL I CAN'T I WISH I COULD
BE CONFIDENT AND PROMISE YOU
THAT I COULD GUARANTEE YOU BUT
SOME OUTCOME HERE IN EITHER
CIRCUMSTANCE.
BUT I DO THINK THAT BY
CONTINUING OUR RELATIONSHIP
WITH THIS PETITION ON THE SITE
PLAN I JUST FEEL THAT IT IS A
BETTER POSITION FOR US AS THE
COMMUNITY TO TO SIT WITH THEM
AT THE TABLE.
MAYBE WE COULD EXPLORE REDUCING
THE FOOTPRINT OVERALL OF THE
SITE POTENTIALLY IN THE ABSENCE
OF DRYFOOS TO ACCOMPLISH THEIR
GOALS AND SORT OF TRY TO MAKE
THE DEVELOPMENT AS COMPACT AS
AS IT MIGHT POSSIBLY BE.
BUT AGAIN, AT THE END OF THE
DAY I WANT BE CLEAR WE WE WE
HAVE TO RESPOND TO THE
APPLICATION THAT'S IN FRONT
OF US.
BUT I THINK THAT THE BEST TOOL
OF THIS CASE IS SAYING THANK
YOU FOR YOUR THANK YOU FOR
LISTENING.
WE HAVE A COUPLE OF OTHER
THINGS THAT WE'D LIKE TO
EXPLORE WITH YOU.
ANOTHER WAY THAT WE CAN DO THAT
FRANKLY IS WE COULD INSTEAD
OF POSTPONING THIS TO DATE
CERTAIN AS YOU CAN TABLE THIS
TO MAKE SURE THAT WE HAVE THE
SPACE WITH THE PROJECT TEAM TO
COME TO WORK TOWARDS THE BEST
PROJECT WE CAN.
I WANT TO BE CLEAR I DON'T I
WOULDN'T INTEND FOR THAT TO
MEAN IT'S GOING TO BE A YEAR
BUT RATHER THAN BEING
CONSTRAINED BY THAT SPECIFIC
DATE, IF THERE ARE SOME
MODIFICATIONS THAT WE'RE
EXPLORING WITH THEM THAT WE
THAT STAFF IS RECEPTIVE TO SOME
OF THE CONCERNS THAT EITHER THE
NEIGHBORS HAVE RAISED OR THE
PLANNING COMMISSION HAS RAISED
THAT MIGHT GIVE US A LITTLE BIT
MORE SPACE TO ADDRESS THOSE.
BUT AT THE END OF THE DAY,
WHETHER IT'S I WANT TO BE CLEAR
THE COMMISSION DOES AS IT DOES
DO THIS AND AT SOME POINT STAFF
SAYS HEY, IT WOULD BE GREAT IF
YOU ELIMINATED THIS PARKING
SPACE.
SO IT'D BE GREAT IF YOU
CONSIDER THIS ADDITIONAL
MEMORIZER IF THOSE AREN'T
REQUIRED STANDARDS, ULTIMATELY
THEY WOULD HAVE THE ABILITY TO
SAY THANKS FOR YOUR ADVICE BUT
NO THANKS.
>> THANK YOU CASUALLY FOR AGAIN
PROCEDURAL BASIS.
>> HOW MANY VOTES DOES IT TAKE
TO WARD ALL SIX TO BASICALLY ON
THE CASE IN THE CASE OF THIS IT
WOULD BE A MAJORITY OF THOSE
PRESENCE ON THAT IF YOU BASED
ON THE MOTION HERE IT WOULD
REQUIRE FOUR AFFIRMATIVE VOTES
TO AMEND THE AGENDA AND THEN IT
WOULD REQUIRE FOR AFFIRMATIVE
VOTES FOR A RECONSIDERATION AND
THE CORRESPONDING TABLE AND
GORGEOUSNESS.
>> AND I DO WANT TO CLARIFY
KIND OF AGAIN MY POSITION ON
THIS THE REASON I ASK WHAT'S
THE CURRENT UTILIZATION OF THE
SITE IS THAT IT'S VACANT.
IT IS A VACANT OFFICE BUILDING.
TO ME WHAT'S IMPORTANT IS THE
HEALTH, SAFETY AND GENERAL
WELFARE OF THE COMMUNITY.
RIGHT.
I WANT US TO BE A HEALTHIER
COMMUNITY.
I WANT THIS TO BE A SAFER
COMMUNITY AND TO ME THE CONCERN
I HAVE IS THERE BEING A BUS
STOP RIGHT NOW.
SO LET'S SAY THAT WE MAKE THIS
SLIGHTLY MORE FOR LACK OF A
BETTER WORD OF NOT JUST FOR THE
PETITIONER.
RIGHT.
WE PUSH BACK, WE TELL THEM HEY,
LET'S REDESIGN TO A MIXED USE
DEVELOPMENT REQUIRES DIFFERENT
CAPITAL STACK REQUIRES
DIFFERENT VISION, A VISION THAT
SEEMS TO BE MORE ALIGNED WITH
FRANKLY A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SO
THAT THAT'S WHAT WE'RE TRYING
TO WEIGH RIGHT NOW.
RIGHT.
AND I'M OF THE MINDSET THAT IT
TAKES A LOT MORE TIME.
SO HOW LONG DOES IT SIT BEFORE
YOU KNOW, I'D RATHER SEE KIND
OF AGAIN A CLEANED UP
PRODUCTIVE EYES ON THE STREET
JANE JACOBS KIND OF CONCEPT
WHERE WE HAVE A SAFER,
HEALTHIER COMMUNITY.
SO I MEAN OBVIOUSLY THE DRIVE
THRU LANES WERE NOT IN CONCERT
WITH THAT BUT KEEPING THIS
PROPERTY VACANT FOR A LONGER
PERIOD OF TIME ALSO I MEAN
AGAIN IT'S TRADE OFFS AND SO
I'M LOOKING AT IT FROM THAT
STANDPOINT.
WHAT IS THE DECISION WE CAN
MAKE TONIGHT AS A BODY THAT IS
IN CONCERT WITH THE GREATEST
AMOUNT OF IMPROVEMENT IN SAFETY
,GREATEST IMPROVEMENT IN
HEALTH AND WITHOUT KNOWING ALL
OF THE VARIABLES RIGHT.
>> I MEAN OBVIOUSLY THIS IS A
LOT OF DIFFERENT CONSIDERATIONS
AND SO THAT'S I JUST I JUST
WANTED TO SAY FROM THAT TIME
TIMELINE STANDPOINT OF I'M NOT
GOING TO SAY IT'S INEVITABLE
THIS IS HAPPENING BUT YOU KNOW,
THE PETITIONERS INDICATED TO
BRING IT AGAIN AND SO THAT'S
THAT'S WHERE MY CONSIDERATION
COMES IN.
IT SITS VACANT.
IT'S THERE'S NO EYES ON THE
STREET AND IT IS YOU KNOW, IT
SITS FOR ANOTHER SEVERAL YEARS
AND THAT'S NOT NECESSARILY
SOMETHING I WANT EITHER.
SO THAT THAT IS KIND OF AGAIN
FROM MY STANDPOINT AND SO I
WANTED TO COUPLE CLARIFICATIONS
WHICH REQUIRES A MAJORITY NOT
NECESSARILY THE SIX THAT IT
REQUIRES TO ADVANCE SOMETHING
ALSO.
BUT I WOULD LIKE TO ALSO HEAR
FROM ACTUALLY COMMISSIONER
SAUV SPECIFICALLY ONLY BECAUSE
YOU DID MAKE FAIRLY COMPELLING
ARGUMENTS LAST TIME ABOUT YOU
KNOW, THIS ISN'T A SPURIOUS
DENIAL WE HAVE HAD SPECIFICALLY
KEESEY ONE ALLOCA AND IT ISN'T
ONE BUT I JUST NEED TO REFRESH
MYSELF HERE THAT'S CODIFIED AND
WHERE THAT COMMUNITY GO.
SO I'D LOVE TO HEAR FROM YOU
KIND OF ON YOUR THOUGHTS
REGARDING THIS AND WHAT ARE THE
RATIONALES THAT IS GOING
THROUGH YOUR MIND CURRENTLY IF
YOU WOULDN'T?
>> LOOK, I'M HAPPY TO SHARE THE
GROUNDS.
A SPECIAL EXCEPTION IS WE HAVE
THE DISCRETION TO DENY BASED ON
THAT AND POST SPECIAL EXCEPTION
NEW STANDARDS ARE APPLYING IT
AS IT RELATES TO OUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND
DOCUMENTS AND I BELIEVE THAT
SEVERAL OF THE GOALS OF A
COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING
DOCUMENTS AND SO WITH THAT THE
SPECIAL EXCEPTION ARE THE
FLIGHT PLAN TOGETHER COTININE
IN THE CONTEXT OF TODAY I
BELIEVE THAT THE TOOL THAT WE
HAVE IS TIME IN ACTUALLY A
POSITIVE WE ARE DISCUSSING SEE
ONE THE PETITIONERS HERE TO
HEAR SOME OF THE PROGRESS AND
THE GOALS OF DC ONE I
UNDERSTAND THAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT CONFLICTING LAND USE
BUFFERS IN THE IMMEDIATE FUTURE
WHICH COULD HAVE AN IMPACT ON
THIS SITE AS WELL IN ADJACENT.
AND SO BOTH OF THOSE
DISCUSSIONS ARE IMMEDIATE THAT
THE PETITIONER AND TAKE INTO
CONSIDERATION WHERE THOSE
DISCUSSIONS LEAD TO REAPPLY TO
AN UPDATED SITE PLAN
SIMULTANEOUSLY BEING ABLE TO
START AGAIN ALLOWS THEM NOT TO
KIND OF LIKE MANDATE AND POINT
SOME OF THESE ISSUES BUT A
RECONSIDERATION FROM THE FULL
TRAFFIC POINT THERE WERE
CONCERNS ABOUT, YOU KNOW, FIRE
CHECK POINT ACCESS PLUS EXITS
AND THINGS LIKE THAT.
SO I THINK THAT THERE ARE
DISCUSSIONS AROUND OTHER POLICY
IMMEDIATELY LIKE IN THE COMING
WEEKS IT MAY NOT BE ADOPTED
IMMEDIATELY BUT
DEPENDING ON
THE DURATION OF RECONSIDERATION
BY THE PETITIONER IT COULD
ACTUALLY INFLUENCE THE DESIGN
MORE THAN DELETING THE PARKING
OR THE DRIVER'S LICENSE.
AND SO I THINK IT'S IT'S THINGS
LIKE THAT THAT REALLY MAKE ME
KIND OF CONSIDER WHAT WOULD
HAPPEN IN THE TIME.
IT'S REALLY HARD FOR ME TO
BELIEVE THAT BASED ON THE GOALS
KIND OF STATED IN THE PETITION,
I WANT TO INCORPORATE THAT THIS
WOULD BE READY FOR
RECONSIDERATION IN TWO MONTHS.
SO AT THAT POINT HOW MANY TIMES
ARE WE NOTICING THIS VERSUS THE
OPPORTUNITY TO RESET AND DO A
FULL NOTICE BY POSTCARD AGAIN?
SO THERE'S OTHER THINGS THAT
I'M WEIGHING IN TERMS
OF NOTIFICATION IF NOT TO A
DATE CERTAIN HOW DO WE REENGAGE
THE COMMUNITY IF THIS TAKES
LONGER THAN THE DATE THAT WE
SET TONIGHT AND WHAT ARE THE
CURRENT THINGS ON OUR WORKING
PLAN THAT THE PETITIONER CAN
NOW ENGAGE IN?
BECAUSE I THINK A LOT OF THE
DISCUSSION FROM LAST TIME WAS
ABOUT HAVEN'T YOU BEEN PAYING
ATTENTION?
THESE ARE VERY COSTS,
CONSISTENT DISCUSSIONS ABOUT
DRIVERS.
THIS CANNOT BE THE FIRST TIME
THAT YOU'RE HEARING ABOUT THIS
IF YOU'VE BEEN WORKING ON THIS
PROJECT WITHIN THE CITY FOR
QUITE A WHILE.
SO I THINK THAT THESE
CONVERSATIONS ARE PUBLIC AND
CAN BE CONSIDERED.
SO THAT'S MY TAKE.
>> THANK YOU KNOW, I APPRECIATE
THAT FEEDBACK AND ALSO RESPECT
YOUR OPINION.
SO I WANTED TO HEAR FROM YOU
AGAIN.
MR. LEINERT, YOU HAD PROPOSED A
SEPARATE KIND OF MODIFICATION
OF THE EMOTION IN ONE WHICH WE
MAY BE ABLE TO TABLE.
CAN YOU REFRESH US ON THAT?
TO BE CLEAR, IN EITHER
CIRCUMSTANCE IT WOULD REQUIRE
RECONSIDERATION.
THE MOTION I IN MY MEMORANDUM
TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION I
PROPOSE A POSTPONEMENT TO A
DATE CERTAIN I THINK THAT WAS
FROM LARGELY OF THE SITE WOULD
NOT CHANGE SIGNIFICANT OTHER
THAN THE REMOVAL OF THE DRIVE
THROUGH AND ADDING THE
CONDITION OF ELECTRIFICATION.
MY HYPOTHESIS IS JUST INSTEAD
OF MODIFYING POSTPONING IT TO A
DATE CERTAIN IF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION CHOOSES TO
RECONSIDER TABLING ACTION BY
MEANS THAT WOULDN'T BE A DATE
CERTAIN.
I WANT TO BE CLEAR IN EITHER
CASE OF EITHER POSTPONEMENT OR
TABLING BECAUSE OF THE NATURE
OF THIS PROCESS THE PUBLIC
HEARING WILL BE REALLY NOTICED
THAT'S DISTINCT IF THE ITEM
WOULD HAVE BEEN POSTPONED AT
THE PREVIOUS PUBLIC HEARING
BECAUSE THAT THERE COULD BE
INDIVIDUALS WHO WERE NOTIFIED
OF THAT MEETING AND ARE NOT
HERE TO UNDERSTAND EVEN IF THE
PLANNING COMMISSION CHOSE THAT
SO THAT WILL BE RE NOTICED TO
COMMISSIONER.
SO THIS POINT IF IT IS NOT
RECONSIDERED ADDITIONAL
NOTIFICATION WILL GO OUT BASED
ON OUR CITIZEN PARTICIPATION
REQUIREMENTS.
BUT IF MORE TIME IF WE WEREN'T
UNDER A DEADLINE OF THE TWENTY
FIRST IT MIGHT AFFORD STAFF AND
THE PETITION OR MORE
OPPORTUNITY TO COME UP WITH
SOME OTHER CREATIVE SOLUTIONS.
>> THANK YOU BUT BUT I WANT TO
BE CLEAR TO YOUR QUESTION THOSE
THEY THEY ARE LIKELY GOING TO
BE MORE MODEST THAN FOR THE
REASONS THAT YOU ARE I THINK
ARTICULATED THAT DRASTICALLY
RECONCEIVING THIS BUILDING AND
ITS FINANCING MODEL WOULD BE
PRETTY DIFFERENT.
SO I'M THINKING ABOUT MORE JUST
SCALE ITS ARRANGEMENT ON THE
SITE, ITS RELATIONSHIP TO THE
OTHER SITES.
SO I JUST I JUST WANT TO BE
HONEST ABOUT EXPECTATIONS AND
WHERE I WOULD SEE MOVEMENT.
>> SURE, SURE I UNDERSTAND.
AND THEN AGAIN THE ALTERNATIVE
IS WE DON'T MOVE TO RECONSIDER
AND THEY WILL LIKELY BRING BACK
ANOTHER SITE PLAN.
>> SO I WILL TAKE THAT INTO
CONSIDERATION FOR THAT.
>> I WILL MOVE TO RECONSIDER
THE MOTION ON A TABLING BASIS.
WE'RE STILL IN DISCUSSION ON
THE SITE.
OK, I APOLOGIZE.
YEAH OK.
YEAH I'VE GOT ONE MORE KIND
OF QUESTION TO THIS SO I'M
STRETCHING THIS CONVERSATION
ABOUT THE MOTION OF THE AGENDA
ITEM BECAUSE LIKE IF WE DON'T
TALK ABOUT IT NOW AND IT FAILS,
WE DON'T GET TO TALK ABOUT THE
NEXT STEP.
SO LET'S JUST ALL OF IT OUT NOW
AND UM I GUESS I IT LIKE FROM
THE LETTER FROM PATRICIA
THERE'S NO GUARANTEES
OF ELECTRIFICATION.
IT'S JUST AN ACCOMMODATION THAT
THEY'VE SAID THAT WHEN IT COMES
BACK THAT THERE'S NO GUARANTEE
THAT WE HAVE TO HOLD THEM TO
IT.
>> IT STILL WOULD COME BACK AS
A BUY RIGHT.
>> THEY COULD PRESENT A PLAN
THAT DOESN'T INCLUDE THAT UM IN
OTHERS I PLAN.
SO I WILL NOTE THAT WHEN
PETITIONER'S ARE RESPONDING TO
THOSE COMMUNITY GOALS WE DO
WHEN THEY ARE OFFERED
VOLUNTARILY AND THEY ARE
MEMORIALIZED AS IN A
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
SO THEY DO BECOME OBLIGATIONS
OF THE SITE.
BUT YOU'RE RIGHT IT THIS PLAN
COULD COME BACK AND WE LOOKED
AT IT NO, WE DON'T WANT TO DO
THAT AND THAT'S THE CASE IN
BOTH CASES THE SAME SCENARIO
OF IT.
OK, LET'S OPEN UP THAT OPTION
TO ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION ON
THIS MOTION.
>> MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT, JUST WANT
TO CLARIFY ONE THING THAT YOU
JUST SAID SO YOU REALIZE IN A
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT THE CITY
DOES NOT REQUIRE MODIFICATIONS
RIGHT NOW IF IT'S IN THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT THE
PETITIONERS REQUIRED TO DO IT
ONCE THEY'VE PASSED PLANNING
PERMISSION
.
>> I THINK WE'RE READY FOR THE
VOTE.
WE ARE VOTING ON THE MOTION TO
AMEND THE AGENDA TO ADD
RECONSIDERATION OF TWENTY ONE
TWENTY NINE POINT THIRTY EIGHT
POINT APPROVAL AND ANY OTHER
BUSINESS WHICH MEANS SURELY
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE TO STICK
AROUND.
OH MAYBE MAYBE START MAYBE I
WAS THINKING THE WRONG SPOT ON
THE MOTION TO AMEND THE AGENDA
TO INCLUDE TWENTY NINE TWENTY
NINE PLYMOUTH COMMISSIONER LEE
YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT NO
COMMISSIONER IT NO COMMISSIONER
DISH IS YES COMMISSIONER CLARK
NO COMMISSIONER IS NO THIS
MOTION FAILS
SO WELL WE'RE
MOVING ON TO REGULAR BUSINESS
WHICH INCLUDES KEESEY ONE.
YES I'D LIKE TO SAY I'M
RECUSING MYSELF FROM THE
DISCUSSION OF DC ONE ON THE
BASIS THAT MY EMPLOYER OWNS
PROPERTY IN DC ONE THANK
COMMERCIALLY UM AND SO THIS I
HANDED OVER TO STEF I'M GOING
TO TURN IT OVER TO CITY PLANNER
LEXUS TALEO FOR AN OVERVIEW
OF THE PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
OF REFERENCE UH UH NO WE'RE
FINE
ACTUALLY.
WE'RE GOING TO GIVE
COMMISSIONER LEE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO ACCUSE HIMSELF
FROM THE WE CREDIT COMMISSIONER
LEE BASED ON THAT ACTION.
>> I THINK YOU SHOULD GO HOME
.
UM, SO BEFORE ALEXIS KICKS OFF
A PRESENTATION I JUST WANT TO
BE CLEAR REGARDLESS OF THE
OUTCOME THIS EVENING, I KNOW
THAT THIS MOTION WILL FAIL.
YOU HAVE A QUORUM TO CONDUCT
BUSINESS HOWEVER YOU DON'T HAVE
WITH COMMISSIONER LEE'S RECUSAL
WE DON'T HAVE SIX AFFIRMATIVE
VOTES TO PASS ACTION.
THIS HAPPENS FROM TIME TO TIME
.
I WANT TO BE CLEAR IT WILL BE
REPORTED ON TO THE CITY COUNCIL
AS A RECOMMENDATION OF DENIAL
FROM THE PLANNING COMMISSION
BUT THEY WILL ALSO BE SHARED
WITH THE RECORD THAT WOULD SHOW
WHATEVER THE OUTCOME OF THAT
VOTE IS.
>> MY RATIONALE IS THAT THIS
PER OUR LAST DISCUSSION WAS OUT
OF INTEREST I THINK IN GETTING
THIS DISTRICT IN THE BEST SHAPE
AS POSSIBLE.
AND SO MY INTENTION IS TO
CONTINUE MOVING THIS UM
REGARDLESS OF THE CHALLENGES
THAT WE'VE HAD WITH ATTENDANCE
TONIGHT.
AGAIN, I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE
OUTCOME OF YOUR VOTE IS BUT
BECAUSE THERE ARE NOT SIX
MEMBERS PRESENT IT WILL CLEARLY
NOT BE FOR APPROVAL.
>> NO, YOU IS THAT THAT'S A
RULE LIKE A LAW THAT SAYS
SYNAGOGUE'S WE DON'T IT'S IN
YOUR BYLAWS.
OK, SO THEN SINCE IT'S IN OUR
BYLAWS THEN WHY CAN'T I MAKE A
MOTION FOR US TO POSTPONE THIS
TO THE NEXT MEETING SO THAT WE
COULD VOTE ON THIS AND THE ONLY
REASON WHY I AM ASKING THAT
QUESTION IS COUNSEL.
IT'S MY UNDERSTANDING THAT
COUNCIL LOOKS TO PLANNING TO
UNDERSTAND WHERE THINGS ARE
MOVING AS IT COMES TO THEIR
TABLE.
THEY HAVE THEIR OWN ABILITY TO
VOTE AT THEIR TABLE BUT THEY
ALSO WANT TO UNDERSTAND HOW
PLANNING IS WEIGHING IN ON SOME
OF THESE PIECES AND I THINK
THAT'S SORT OF EVIDENT IN OUR
LAST MEETING WHERE STAFF SAID
DENIAL AND THEN THE TABLE HAD A
VERY LONG CONVERSATION AND IT
PASSED SIX TWO.
SO THAT INFORMATION IS
IMPORTANT WHEN IT GOES TO THE
COUNCIL TABLE AND WE'RE GOING
TO LOSE OUR ABILITY TO
COMMUNICATE THROUGH OUR VOTE TO
THE COUNCIL TABLE AND I I'M
JUST CONCERNED ABOUT LIKE WHY
ARE WE DOING THAT PRIOR TO YOUR
FIRST QUESTION?
OF COURSE THE QUESTION ALWAYS
HAS THE OPTION TO APPROVE
SOMETHING
, DENY SOMETHING OR
POSTPONE ACTION ON IT.
SO THAT IS DEFINITELY AN OPTION
IN THIS CASE.
UM, I I CONCUR THE SUPPORT
OF HYPOTHETICALLY IF ALL FIVE
COMMISSIONERS ARE PRESENT VOTED
IN FAVOR OF THE PROPOSED
AMENDMENTS, THAT TRANSMISSION
WOULD BE A DENIAL BECAUSE
DOESN'T NEED SIX VOTES BUT IT
WOULD ALSO REFLECT THAT ALL
MEMBERS PRESENT WERE SUPPORTIVE
OF THAT ACTION.
I WILL SAY THAT THERE HAVE BEEN
CIRCUMSTANCES IN THE PAST WHERE
THE CITY COUNCIL I THINK HAS
SEEN THE TOTALITY OF THAT
RECORD AND UNDERSTOOD THE
CIRCUMSTANCES OF OF A CASE LIKE
THIS FRANKLY WHERE THEY BASED
ON SOME PECULIAR SCENARIOS OUR
ATTENDANCE THERE WAS WE WERE
UNABLE TO ACHIEVE THE REQUIRED
NUMBER OF VOTES.
I CAN'T SPEAK FOR THE CITY
COUNCIL HOW THEY WOULD PROJECT
THAT WHAT THE VOTE WOULD HAVE
BEEN IF THE PRESENT PRESENCE
WERE THERE.
SO IN SHORT, IT'S A POSSIBILITY
FOR THE SAKE OF A LOT OF WORK
AHEAD I HAVE OF THE MINE AND I
ADVISE THE PLANNING COMMISSION
TO TAKE YOUR VOTES HERE AND
LET'S PROGRESS IT TO CITY
COUNCIL.
I THINK THAT CITY COUNCIL IS
HUNGRY FOR THESE CHANGES BASED
ON A LOT THE CONVERSATION
OF THE PREVIOUS ITEM AND OTHER
CONVERSATIONS THAT THEY'RE
HEARING.
>> SO THE NUANCES OF THAT I
THINK THE DOWNSIDE OF THAT
SINGULAR VOICE PLANNING
COMMISSION THAT IS A THAT'S
UNFORTUNATE THAT IF OTHERWISE
THERE WOULD HAVE BEEN MORE
MEMBERS HERE, IT WOULD HAVE
BEEN A DIFFERENT OUTCOME I
THINK FOR THE TOTALITY OF THAT
RECORD WILL NOT BE LOST ON
COUNCIL AND A FOR US THE
ABILITY TO MOVE THAT FORWARD
AND GET ON TO THE NEXT WORK WE
HAVE THE CAPACITY TO OFFICIALLY
AMEND THE MOTION LIKE IF WE
MADE AMENDMENTS TO THE MOTION
AND THEN VOTED ON THOSE
AMENDMENTS PRIOR THAT WOULD BE
A YES.
YES.
OK, SO WE COULD PASS ON AN
AMENDED MOTION THAT FAILED.
CORRECT.
BUT AT LEAST THE DISCUSSION WE
COULD AMEND IT AND THEN SEND
THAT TO COUNCIL TO UNDERSTAND
MAYBE SOME CHANGES TO IT.
THE BYLAWS STIPULATE THAT SIX
VOTES ARE REQUIRED FOR ITEMS
OF ADVICE ITEMS TO THE CITY
COUNCIL SO WHATEVER ACTIONS YOU
TAKE AT THIS TABLE CAN HAPPEN.
BUT SIX AFFIRMATIVE VOTES HAVE
TO THAT SIGNIFIES A
RECOMMENDATION OF APPROVAL OR
DENIAL TO SO IT'S FOUR VOTES
STILL TO AMEND IT AND REWRITE
NOW THREE FROM BECAUSE I WAS
DOWN THE FIVE THREE VOTES TO
OFFICIALLY AMEND IT AND THEN WE
HAVE A FORMAL RECORD OF ANY
AMENDED IF THERE'S DISCUSSION
AND DECISION TO DO THAT AND
THEN THAT PROCEEDS BUT IT WILL
ALWAYS IN THIS CASE PROCEED AS
IF YOU BUT I WANT TO BE CLEAR A
POSTPONEMENT IS AN OPTION.
>> NO, I DON'T KNOW THAT IT'S
NECESSARY TO VOTE.
>> I JUST WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT I THINK THERE IS SOME
COMPLEXITY HERE BECAUSE I DO
THINK THAT ONE COUNCIL KIND
OF RETURN SEE ONE TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
>> IT IS WITH SOME REQUESTS
THAT I DO NOT THINK THE
PLANNING COMMISSION IS
NECESSARILY FULLY IN SYMPATHY
WITH COUNCIL ON SO THAT THE
COMPLEX SITUATION TONIGHT IS IF
IT FAILS BECAUSE IT HAS TO BUT
ALSO BECAUSE YOU DON'T LIKE
SOME OF THE CHANGES THAT ARE
BEING MADE AND SO THAT IS THE
HARDER THAT MAY BE THE HARDER
MESSAGE TO COMMUNICATE.
>> BUT SINCE THERE IS THE
ABILITY TO AMEND THE COUNCIL
MEMBERS I'M FAIRLY CONFIDENT
HAVE THE ABILITY TO READ SO
THEY WILL THEY CAN READ OUR
MINUTES AND I CAN REPORT THE
SENSE OF THE DISCUSSION AND I
WILL DO SO FAIRLY REGARDLESS
OF WHERE I STAND ON THE THINGS
THAT ARE DISCUSSED HERE.
BUT IT IS TRUE THAT WE ARE
MISSING SOME VOICES WHO RAISE
CRUCIAL REFINEMENTS OFTEN TO
THE THINGS THAT WE'RE LOOKING
AT.
IT'S JUST YOU KNOW WHAT I'M
HEARING FROM MY COLLEAGUES ON
COUNCIL IS A TREMENDOUS
IMPATIENCE WHICH I HAVE SOME
FRUSTRATION ABOUT BECAUSE IT'S
APRIL 18TH.
I MEAN WE WERE TOLD WHEN WE
SENT THIS BACK THAT WE WOULDN'T
GET EVERYTHING BACK UNTIL THE
SUMMER.
>> IT'S NOT SUMMER OUT THERE.
>> SO YOU KNOW, SO I I AM
WORRIED THAT A POSTPONEMENT IS
GOING TO START A LITTLE
BRUSHFIRE.
SO I WOULD KIND OF RATHER THAT
YOU TRUSTED THAT THE MINUTES
ANY AMENDMENTS YOU MAKE IN MY
REPORT IN THE SENSE OF THE
DISCUSSION WOULD NOT LOSE YOUR
NUANCE IF WE FEEL WE CAN
PROCEED WITHOUT THE EXPERTIZE
THAT WE'RE MISSING BECAUSE WE
ARE MISSING SOME CONSIDERABLE
EXPERTIZE SO ALEXIS, TAKE IT
AWAY.
THANK YOU.
LET ME
AT THANK YOU
.
OH, I'M NOT THE BEGINNING
OK, WE ARE AT THE BEGINNING ALL
THANK YOU BEFORE YOU THIS
EVENING ER SOME AMENDMENTS TO
THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE CAN YOU GET CLOSER EVEN
HERE EVEN CLOSER.
>> YES I GOT GOOD EVENING UM
TONIGHT BEFORE YOU AS
AMENDMENTS TO THE UDC RELATED
TO THE TAXI ONE TRANSIT
CORRIDOR DISTRICT THESE
AMENDMENTS ARE TO ALLOW
VEHICULAR USES.
>> I'M THESE AMENDMENTS ARE TO
ALLOW VEHICULAR SALES AND
RENTAL SPECIFICALLY THE
AUTOMOBILE MOTORCYCLE
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE EQUIPMENT
SALES AND RENTAL IS WHAT IS IN
THE PRIMARY USE TABLE TO ALLOW
THIS IN THE TAXI ONE DISTRICT
SECOND TO ALLOW AUTOMOBILE
TRUCK AND CONSTRUCTION
EQUIPMENT REPAIR AS A PRIMARY
USE IN THE TAXI ONE DISTRICT
AND TO REDESIGN THE TRANSIT
CORRIDOR DEVELOPMENT USE
SPECIFIC STANDARDS TABLE TO
CLARIFY THE BUILDING TOPOLOGIES
AND APPLICATION OF THE
STANDARDS.
LET ME START WITH A TINY BIT
OF BACKGROUND NOT SUPER IN
DEPTH BUT THE TAXI ONE DISTRICT
WAS CREATED IN TWENTY TWENTY
ONE.
>> IT IS OUR NEWEST ZONING
DISTRICT ADDED TO THE UDC.
IT'S SUPPOSED TO BE LOCATED
ALONG EXISTING TRANSIT
CORRIDORS TO REALIZE MIXED USE
DEVELOPMENTS AND MIXED USE
CORRIDORS AND TO SUPPORT AND
SUSTAIN TRANSIT SERVICE WHICH
MEANS INCREASING HOUSING
CHOICE, HOUSING AFFORDABILITY,
SUSTAINABILITY AND DECREASING
RESOURCE AND ENERGY NEEDS.
FROM THOSE DEVELOPMENTS, UM,
THE REASON WE ARE BRINGING
FORTH THESE AMENDMENTS IS CITY
COUNCIL PASSED A RESOLUTION IN
DECEMBER ASKING TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION TO EVALUATE AND
RECOMMEND SOME AMENDMENTS
SPECIFICALLY TO INCORPORATE
SOME LIMITED AUTOMOBILE RELATED
USES.
BUT THERE WAS A NOTE TO EXCLUDE
DRIVE THROUGH AND GAS STATIONS
AND COUNCIL ASKED US TO ADDRESS
CONSTRAINTS OF THE EXISTING
NARROW RIGHTS OF WAY PRIMARILY
THINKING OF THE WEST STADIUM
BOULEVARD AREA.
BUT ANY PLACE WHERE ONE MAY BE
OR MAY BE APPLIED TONIGHT WE
ARE ONLY ADDRESSING THE FIRST
ELEMENT INCORPORATING LIMITED
AUTOMOBILE RELATED USES.
WE WILL HAVE TO COME BACK TO
YOU IN THE FUTURE TO DISCUSS
ADDRESSING THOSE CONSTRAINTS
OF THE EXISTING NATURAL RIGHTS
OF WAY.
>> UM THE TAXI ONE DISTRICT IS
A VERSION OF FORM BASED
CODE SIMILAR TO OUR DOWNTOWN
ZONING DISTRICTS D1 AND D2.
BUT THE T7 DISTRICT HAS IS
HEAVY INTO AND HAS A LOT
OF FOREIGN BASED CODE ELEMENTS
AS A REMINDER TO LEVEL THE
DISCUSSION FORM BASE CODES ARE
A WAY TO REGULATE DEVELOPMENT
THAT CONTROLS BUILDING FORM
FIRST AND BUILDING YOU SECOND.
SOME PEOPLE ALSO DESCRIBE IT AS
A MEANS OF REGULATING LAND
DEVELOPMENT LAND DEVELOPMENT TO
ACHIEVE A SPECIFIC URBAN FORM
OR LAND DEVELOPMENT REGULATION
USING PHYSICAL FORM RATHER THAN
SEPARATION OF LAND USES AS THE
ORGANIZING PRINCIPLE OF OUR TCE
ONE DISTRICT HAS SOME MINIMUMS
AND MAXIMUMS MUST HAVE SOME
OF THOSE FORMS STANDARDS
HIGHLIGHTS ARE OF OUR MINIMUMS
INCLUDE A TWO STORY BUILDINGS.
THE FIRST FLOOR HEIGHT HAS TO
BE FIFTEEN FEET AND THAT ALLOWS
FOR A VARIETY OF USES LONG TERM
INTO THE FUTURE REGARDLESS
OF WHAT THE INITIAL USE IS.
SIXTY PERCENT FIRST FLOOR
TRANSPARENCY MUST HAVES INCLUDE
FUNCTIONAL ENTRANCES FACING THE
STREET.
THE BUILDING SPANS SEVENTY
PERCENT OF THE LOT FRONTAGE AT
LEAST WE REQUIRE SMALLER BLOCK
DESIGNS FOR LARGER SITES.
WE HAVE A FIFTEEN WATT MAXIMUM
SET BACK A FOOTNOTE IS THAT IS
FOR MIXED USE BUILDINGS NOT FOR
RESIDENTIAL APARTMENT
BUILDINGS.
THOSE CAN GO TWENTY FEET.
WE HAVE A MAXIMUM OF ONE CURB
CUT.
WE MAXIMIZE THE VEHICULAR USE
AREA AT EITHER ONE HUNDRED OR
ONE HUNDRED TWENTY FIVE PERCENT
OF THE BUILDING FOOTPRINT SO
THAT THE DOMINANT USE OF THE
SITE BY SURFACE AREA IS NOT
PARKING.
WE HAVE MAXIMUM HEIGHTS AND WE
HAVE A MAXIMUM DIAGONAL
DIMENSION FOR THAT BUILDING.
THE LIMITED AUTOMOBILE RELATED
USES WE ARE SUGGESTING TO
INCORPORATE OUR VEHICLE SALES
SUMMARIZE WITHOUT THE FULL
TITLES BUT VEHICLE SALES AND
RENTAL AND VEHICLE REPAIR WE
RECOMMEND VEHICLES THESE AND
WE
RECOMMEND TAKING THEM TOGETHER.
WE FEEL THAT THERE ARE SO MANY
OF INTERRELATED MYTHS TO THESE
SALES AND RENTAL SOMETIMES
BUSINESSES COULD REPAIR AND
THEN RENT WHAT THEY SELL OR
VICE VERSA.
SOMETIMES REPAIR CAN BE
ATTACHED TO RETAIL PARTS AND
OTHER PARTS AND SUCH.
THEY ARE THEY WORK VERY WELL
TOGETHER AND WE ARE
RECOMMENDING APPROVAL BE
RELYING ON FOR OUR FORM BASE
CODES FOR NEWLY ESTABLISHED
BUSINESSES, VEHICLE REPAIR OR
SALES AND RENTAL BUSINESSES.
THE TAXI STANDARDS ARE
TRIGGERED BY NEW DEVELOPMENT
AND IF SOMEONE IS ANY BUSINESS,
WHETHER IT BE THESE LIMITED
AUTOMOBILE RELATED OR ANY OTHER
BUSINESS OF ANY SORT IF THEY
ARE WILLING TO BUILD TO OUR
FORM THEN WE CAN CAN WELL
CONFIDENTLY WELCOME THEM INTO
THE INTO THE DISTRICT IN THAT
SENSE SELLING BRAND NEW
AUTOMOBILES IS NO DIFFERENT
THAN SELLING T-SHIRTS OR
BANANAS.
IT'S GOING TO BE IN THE SAME
BUILDING TYPOLOGY AND THEN FOR
EXISTING BUSINESSES OUR
REZONING OF SOME OF THESE
CORRIDORS BOTH THE STADIUM
MAPLE CORRIDOR AND THE STATE
AND THEN OUR CORRIDOR ARE
PRETTY MUCH BUILT OUT.
THEY HAVE THERE ARE ONE OR TWO
VACANT SITES ON EACH OF THOSE
AND THAT MEANS THERE ARE SOME
OF THESE EXISTING LIMIT
EXISTING AUTOMOBILE RELATED
USES.
WE HAVE MADE THEM
NONCONFORMING.
OUR CODE TAKES A VERY HARD LINE
.
YOU EITHER HAVE A CONFORMING
SITE AND YOU CAN MAKE ALL
OF YOUR IMPROVEMENTS WHETHER
BIG OR SMALL INCREMENTALLY OR
YOU'RE A NONCONFORMING AND YOU
NEED TO BE PHASED OUT.
>> WE CAN DISCUSS REGULATING
NONCONFORMING USES IN A
DIFFERENT TOPIC BUT FOR NOW
THERE IS REALLY NO MIDDLE AREA
AND MAKING THESE EXISTING
BUSINESSES BACK TO CONFORMING
DOES OPEN UP AGAIN.
THE POTENTIAL FOR INCREMENTAL
IMPROVEMENTS TOWARDS COMPLIANCE
SO THEY MIGHT BE IN ONE STOREY
BUILDINGS NOW BUT THIS IS WOULD
SLIGHTLY INCENTIVIZE BRINGING
THOSE NOT PUNISHING THE THE
USERS AND AND FOCUSING ON
GETTING THE FORMS TO WHERE WE'D
LIKE OUR BATCH OF AMENDMENTS
ALSO INCLUDES SOME TABLE
REDESIGN OF TABLE FIVE TO THE
TABLE.
WE YOU KNOW OF COURSE I THOUGHT
THIS WAS THE BEST TABLE EVER IT
HAD IT PROVIDES THE REGULATIONS
INTO TWO CLASSIFICATIONS FOR
LOT IT'S UP TO 250 FEET AND
THEN WITH OVER THERE WERE THREE
BUILDING TYPOLOGIES MIXED USE
BUILDINGS, TOWNHOUSE APARTMENT
BUILDINGS AND ALL BUILDINGS
BROKEN UP INTO FIVE CATEGORIES
WITH HORIZONTAL LINES AND
COLUMNS AND COLORS AND IT'S NOT
AS INTUITIVE AS AS ONE HOPES.
SO WE'VE PROPOSED WE PROPOSED
BOTH A REDESIGN AND SOME
AMENDMENTS THAT SEEMED TO COME
NATURALLY OUT OF THESE THE
TABLE REDESIGN.
>> IT JUST HAS SORT OF THREE
CATEGORIES TALKS ABOUT SITES
HOW TO LAYOUT YOUR SITE, TALKS
ABOUT BUILDING BUILDING
REGULATIONS AND THEN JUST A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT SOME SPECIFIC
BUILDINGS, THE SPECIFIC
BUILDINGS ARE TOWNHOUSES AND
APARTMENT BUILDINGS OR NOT
TOWNHOUSE IN APARTMENT
BUILDINGS AND WE'VE ADDED SOME
NUMBERS AND HEADINGS FOR EASIER
DISCUSSION TALKING ON THE
PHONE, LOOKING AT COMMONALITY
AND WE'VE ALSO MADE AN ATTEMPT
TO REALLY REDUCE THE REPETITION
BETWEEN THE TWO OR BETWEEN ALL
OF THE THE STANDARDS.
I'LL GO THROUGH THE SUBSTANTIVE
TABLE AMENDMENTS AND I DO
BELIEVE THAT THIS PROVIDES A
LITTLE BIT BETTER THAN THE
STAFF REPORT MAY HAVE.
THEY DON'T CONFLICT BUT I THINK
DISCOVERS THIS VISUALLY GOES A
LITTLE BIT BETTER.
NEVERTHELESS, WE'VE ADDED A
HEADING CALLED DEVELOPMENT
ARRANGEMENT AND IT COMES FROM
THE PREVIOUS STANDARD THAT SAYS
IN ORIGINALLY WHEN THE SITE IS
MORE THAN SIXTY TWO THOUSAND
FIVE HUNDRED SQUARE FEET THE
SITE MUST BE DESIGNED AS BLOKS
TWO HUNDRED FIFTY FEET ON EACH
SIDE OR AS NEAR AS PRACTICAL
GIVEN THE SITE CHAPE WITH
SIDEWALKS, PAUSES OR DRIVES
SEPARATING THE BLOCKS AND WE
PROPOSE AN AMENDMENT THAT WHEN
THE SITE IS TWO HUNDRED SITE IS
THAT SIZE IT MUST BE DESIGNED
AS TWO OR MORE BLOCKS WITH
SIDEWALKS, PLAZAS, DRIVES OR
PRIVATE STREETS OR PROPOSED
PUBLIC RIGHTS WAY SEPARATING
THE BLOCKS WE HAVE REMOVED THE
TWO HUNDRED FIFTY FOOT MARK BUT
HOLD ON IT COMES BACK FOR
BUILDING FRONTAGE.
>> THERE WERE THREE STANDARDS
ONE WAS MINIMUM FRONTAGE EQUALS
TO A LOT WITH LESS THIRTY FEET
OR FORTY FIVE WHEN ADJACENT TO
RESIDENTIAL ZONING OR A MINIMUM
OF 75 FEET OR I'M SORRY 70
PERCENT OR 75 PERCENT PROPOSING
A CHANGE AND THE SUBSTANTIVE
PART IS THAT THERE'S NO 75
REQUIREMENT IT'S 70 PERCENT AND
THE MINIMUM FRONTAGE IS 70
PERCENT OF A LOT WITH BUT WE DO
ALLOW THAT AS LONG AS THERE'S
THIRTY FEET BETWEEN THE
BUILDING AND SIDE OUTLINE
NORMALLY OR FORTY FIVE FEET
THOSE THIRTY AND FORTY FIVE
FOOT NUMBERS WERE CHOSEN
BECAUSE THIRTY FEET IS THE SIDE
SET BACK I'M SORRY THIRTY FEET
IS WHEN PROVIDES YOU WITH
CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFER IF
NECESSARY AND THE WIDTH OF A
DRIVEWAY FORTY FIVE FEET
PROVIDES THE SIDES THAT BACK
REQUIRED WHEN YOU'RE ADJACENT
TO RESIDENTIAL SO YOU CAN STILL
HAVE YOU CAN STILL HAVE A
DRIVEWAY AND MAXIMIZE THE
BUILDING FRONTAGE AND IT WAS A
POINT OF CONFUSION THAT IF YOU
WERE TO DIVIDE YOUR SITE AS
BLOCKS LIKE WE ASKED HOW THEN
DO YOU MEASURE THE FRONTAGE?
IS IT BASED ON THE ORIGINAL
DIMENSION OF THE SITE OR IS IT
BASED ON THE BLOCKS AND THE
ADDITIONAL SEPARATION YOU'VE
INSERTED INTO YOUR DESIGN?
SO WE'VE CLARIFIED IT WITH IF
THE SITE IS DIVIDED INTO
SMALLER BLOCKS AS REQUIRED, THE
MINIMAL FRONTAGE APPLIES TO
EACH BLOCK FOR TRANSPARENCY WE
HAVE PROPOSED TO ACTUALLY
STRIKE THE LANGUAGE THAT WAS
WRITTEN AND TO REFER TO SECTION
FIVE 1762 WHICH I'VE REPEATED
BELOW HERE THAT SECTION IS FOR
THE BUILDINGS IN THE D1 AND D2
DISTRICT AND SO RATHER THAN
REPEAT THE LANGUAGE IN TWO
DIFFERENT SPOTS IN THE CODE BUT
THIS LANGUAGE IS A LITTLE BIT
CLEARER, PROVIDES A LITTLE MORE
DETAIL, A LITTLE MORE TRIED AND
TRUE WE'VE BEEN USING IT IN THE
DOWNTOWN AND HAS A LITTLE MORE
SPECIFICITY ABOUT EXACTLY HOW
DO YOU MEASURE AND ACHIEVE THAT
TRANSPARENCY FOR BUILDING THE
DIMENSIONS WE HAVE.
COMBINE THAT TWO HUNDRED AND
FIFTY FOOT BLOCK LENGTH THAT WE
HAD MENTIONED PREVIOUSLY AND
THE MAXIMUM DIAGONAL SO THE
BUILDING WITH PARALLEL TO THE
STREET MAY NOT EXCEED TWO
HUNDRED FIFTY FEET PULLING THAT
STANDARD FROM PREVIOUSLY
BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT WE SORT
OF MEANT.
THE TWO HUNDRED FIFTY FEET
STANDARD COMES FROM DOWNTOWN
THE WIDTH OF THE PRIVATE
PROPERTY ON OUR SMALLEST
DOWNTOWN BLOCKS WHICH WE ARE
USING FOR A PROXY A VERY
COMFORTABLE PEDESTRIAN SCALE
BLOCKS IS TWO HUNDRED FIFTY
FEET BUT IF YOU ADD THE WIDTH
OF THE SIDEWALK ADJACENT TO
THOSE BLOCKS THE DEPENDS ON HOW
YOU DEFINE BLOCK.
DO YOU DEFINE THAT PROPERTY
LINE TO PROPERTY LINE?
DO YOU DEFINE IT FROM ONE
INCLUDING BOTH SIDEWALKS?
DO YOU GO TO THE CENTER LINE
OF THE ROAD TO THE CENTER LINE
OF THE NEXT ROAD HERE?
IT DOESN'T MATTER.
WE'VE REMOVED THAT CONFUSION
ABOUT HOW DO YOU MEASURE A
BLOCK AND SWITCHED IT TO THE
MAXIMUM WIDTH OF THE BUILDING
PARALLEL TO THE STREET.
IT'S TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY FEET
AND THEN PLEASE ADD YOUR
SIDEWALK PLAZAS AND SO FORTH
AND THE MAXIMUM DIAGONAL
DIMENSION REMAINS AT THREE
HUNDRED AND SIXTY FEET.
THAT'S THE DIAGONAL DIMENSION
IF YOU PROVIDE A BUILDING
THAT'S 250 SQUARE AND FINALLY
CLARIFYING WHAT CLARIFYING
WHERE WE ARE PROHIBITING
RESIDENTIAL USES AND WHAT DOES
A AND THAT NOT ALL
INTERSECTIONS ARE THE SAME
PREVIOUSLY IT SAID MIXED USE
BUILDINGS COULDN'T HAVE THE
PORTION OF THE FIRST STORY
WITHIN ONE HUNDRED FEET OF AN
INTERSECTION OR HAD TO BE
OCCUPIED BY NONRESIDENT OR USES
FOR TOWNHOUSE APARTMENT
BUILDINGS NOT PERMITTED WITHIN
ONE HUNDRED FEET OF AN
INTERSECTION OF PUBLIC RIGHTS
OF WAY.
THIS WAS ALL ENCOMPASSING.
THIS INCLUDED THEN THE
INTERSECTION OF STATE AND
EISENHOWER BUT IT ALSO INCLUDED
THE INTERSECTION OF COLLINGWOOD
AND ABBOTT WHICH ARE VASTLY
DIFFERENT SKILLS.
IT WOULD BE APPROPRIATE TO HAVE
RESIDENTIAL WITHIN ONE HUNDRED
FEET OF OF COLLINGWOOD AND
ABBOTT.
>> SO THIS HAS BEEN SWITCHED TO
RESIDENTIAL USES ARE NOT
PERMITTED ON THE FIRST FLOOR
OF A MIXED USE BUILDING WITHIN
ONE HUNDRED FEET OF A
SIGNALIZED INTERSECTIONS AND
SIMILAR TO THE TOWNHOUSE AND
APARTMENT BUILDINGS.
AND I THINK YES.
SO THIS CONCLUDES OUR
SUBSTANTIVE AMENDMENTS.
IT'S A LOT I'M HAPPY TO BREAK
DOWN OR GO OVER ANY ADDITIONAL
EITHER RELATED TO THE AUTO
RELATED TO AUTO USES OR THE
SUBSTANTIVE REDESIGN OF THE
TABLE ELEMENTS.
BUT PLANNING STAFF ARE
RECOMMENDING APPROVAL OF THIS
AS WE ALL UNDERSTAND, THE VOTE
TONIGHT MAY AT BEST WOULD BE
FIVE TO ZERO.
IT CAN BE CHARACTERIZED AS THE
VOTE IS NOT SO MUCH DO NOT I
THINK THAT CITY COUNCIL WILL
UNDERSTAND THE VOTE IS NOT SO
MUCH DENIED AS IT DID NOT REACH
SIX VOTES.
NOW IF THE VOTE IS ZERO TO FIVE
THAT WOULD BE DIFFERENT.
BUT IF IT'S FIVE TO ZERO
I
BELIEVE OUR CITY COUNCIL HAS
EXPERIENCE IN THAT IT DOESN'T
MEAN IT HAS BEEN DENIED BUT IT
MEANS THAT IT HAS JUST FAILED
TO REACH A MINIMUM THRESHOLD.
ANY QUESTION OF PUBLIC HEARING?
THANK YOU.
SO WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO A
PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR A
PERSON TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THE PROPOSED UDC
AMENDMENTS.
THE P.S. ONE ZONING DISTRICT
WILL FIRST CALL INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION.
THE REMOTE PARTICIPANTS SPEAK
DURING THE PUBLIC HEARING
REMOTELY PRESS STAR NINE IF
LISTENING BY PHONE AND USER
BASE AND FUTURE IF VOTING VIA
THE WEB LINK FOR PHONE ACCESS
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
MAYBE MOBILITY SEVEN SEVEN SIX
SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX
STAFF WILL SELECT COLLEAGUES
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND
USING THREE DIGITS.
YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME IS
AVAILABLE FOR THOSE ACCESSING
THROUGH THE WEB LINK.
YOU HAVE NOT LEARNED THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
ON SPEAKING.
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND
ANY TELEVISION BACKGROUND
SILENCE YOU CLEARLY EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION PLEASE
STATE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AT
THE BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS
FIRST WILL GO TO ANYONE PRESENT
.
>> I DO NOT SEE ANYONE WITH A
LOT MORE CHAIRS HERE THOUGH YOU
JUST START TO NOTICE WE ARE
PACKED WITH CHAIRS AGAIN OK IS
THERE ANYONE THAT LIKE TO JUST
THE COMMISSION REMOTELY SCOPI
THERE ARE CURRENTLY THREE HANDS
RAISED.
OUR FIRST CALLER ADAM YES.
GAVE IT YOU PERMISSION TO
ADDRESS THE HI THIS IS ADAM
JUSZKIEWICZ FOURTEEN THIRTY LAS
VEGAS DRIVE WHO LIVE IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD ADJACENT TO THE
WEST STADIUM TO ONE CORRIDOR.
UM, WELL I'M NOT A BIG FAN
OF CHANGING THE A LOT OF USES
FOR TO SEE ONE BEFORE WE EVEN
SEE ANY NEW DEVELOPMENT COMING
OUT OF IT.
I'VE BEEN FOLLOWING THESE
DISCUSSIONS.
I UNDERSTAND WHY YOU'RE
CONSIDERING MAKING THIS CHANGE.
I ALSO UNDERSTAND THAT THIS
WILL BE I GUESS TECHNICALLY
DENIED AND I WHICH I GUESS IS
THE BEST KIND OF TONIGHT WHAT
I'VE HAD WHAT I HAVE A HARD
TIME UNDERSTANDING IS HOW MOST
OF THESE KINDS OF BUSINESSES
ARE GOING TO BE COMPATIBLE WITH
A TRANSIT CORRIDOR HEAVY WITH
PEDESTRIAN BUS AND BIKE TRAFFIC
.
I THINK IT WILL BE DIFFICULT
FOR DEVELOPERS TO THREAD THAT
NEEDLE.
WE HAVE A CLIMATE CRISIS AND WE
HAVE A TRAFFIC VIOLENCE CRISIS
AND THEREFORE WE HAVE COMMITTED
TO CUTTING VEHICLE MILES
TRAVELED IN HALF ADDING MORE
CARS INTRODUCES IS THAT
COMPATIBLE WITH THAT GOAL?
HOWEVER, LOOKING AT THE ASK
FROM COUNCIL FROM WATCHING
PRIOR DISCUSSIONS ON THIS
TOPIC, IT SOUNDED TO ME LIKE
THE INTENT WAS THAT THESE BE
ADDED AS A SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USE AND THAT IS WHAT I WAS
EXPECTING TO SEE TONIGHT.
THIS WOULD MAKE THE USE
CONSISTENT WITH OUR D1 AND D2
ZONES WHICH I BELIEVE WAS A
POINT MADE IN PRIOR DISCUSSIONS
OF THIS CHANGE.
IN FACT THAT WAS MENTIONED IN
THE SECOND WHEREAS CLAUSE FROM
COUNCIL WHEREAS SOME AUTOMOBILE
RELATED COMMERCIAL USES I.E.
CAR RENTAL REPAIR LOCATED IN
CLOSE PROXIMITY TO HOUSING ARE
SUPPORTIVE OF THE GOALS OF DC
ONE ZONING DISTRICT BUT
CURRENTLY AREN'T PERMITTED BY
THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE IF
YOU REALLY MUST ALLOW THESE
USERS AND PC ONE, PLEASE
CONSIDER MAKING THEM A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION RATHER THAN A PRIMARY
USE SO THAT YOU CAN RETAIN AT
LEAST SOME DISCRETION IN
WHETHER OR NOT TO ALLOW THESE
USERS.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS ADAM GOODMAN
.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION.
HI THERE ADAM GOODMAN FOUR
HUNDRED VIRGINIA AVENUE.
SO I'VE SPOKEN TO YOU SEVERAL
TIMES ON TV ONE BEFORE
ESPECIALLY ON THE WEST INDIAN
BORDER NEAR WHERE I LIVE AND
ONE OF MY PRINCIPAL ARGUMENTS
AND WHY I NEEDED TO MOVE THIS
ONE FORWARD AS QUICKLY AS WE
DID IS THE IDEA THAT I THINK
THE COMMUNITY REALLY DOES NOT
WANT TO SEE A LOT OF NEW AUTO
ORIENTED USES ON THIS CORRIDOR.
IN FACT, I'M TALKING TO YOU
BEFORE I SPECIFICALLY NOTED THE
SITE ON STADIUM ADVERTISING
POTENTIAL USES A CAR DEALERSHIP
AND I ASKED IS THIS REALLY WHAT
WE WANT?
I THINK IT DEFINITIVELY IS NOT
RATHER WE ARE TRYING TO
TRANSFORM THESE CORRIDORS INTO
DENSE URBAN MIXED USE AND MIXED
MODE OF CORRIDORS AND WE ARE
TRYING TO FURTHER IMPORTANT
CITY GOALS INCLUDING USING
VEHICLE MILES TRAVELED BY 50
PERCENT.
SO HONESTLY I'M KIND OF BAFFLED
TONIGHT BY THE SUGGESTION THAT
WE ALLOW THESE AUTO ORIENTED
USES BY RIGHT NOW I'M GOING TO
ADMIT I'VE ACTUALLY HAD SOME
MIXED FEELINGS ABOUT CERTAIN
KIND SUBCATEGORIES THESE USES I
DO FIND IT PERSONALLY FIND
USEFUL TO HAVE AN AUTO REPAIR
SHOP IN WALKING DISTANCE OF MY
HOUSE.
I DO UNDERSTAND THAT IT WILL
TAKE INCREMENTAL CHANGES OVER
TIME TO REACH THE FUTURE THAT
WE'RE ALL IN BUSINESS AND
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIDGE DID MAKE
SOME FAIR POINTS IN HER
RESOLUTION INITIATING THIS
EFFORT, FOR EXAMPLE SAYING THAT
ENABLING CONVENIENT CAR RENTAL
LOCATIONS COULD ACTUALLY HELP
HOUSEHOLD REDUCE CAR USE AND
OWNERSHIP OVERALL AND THAT IS
AFTER ALL WHAT I WANT AND WHAT
I THINK A LOT OF US WANT.
I PERSONALLY WANT A FUTURE
WHERE I NO LONGER FEEL THE NEED
TO BE A CAR BUT FOR THAT TO
HAPPEN WE DO NEED TO
SUBSTANTIALLY TRANSFORM OUR
CITY.
SO THE QUESTION I THINK WE NEED
TO ASK MORE BROADLY TONIGHT IS
HOW CAN WE ENABLE THE
FLEXIBILITY WE NEED IN THE
SHORT TERM AND MEDIUM?
RECOGNIZING CARS WILL CONTINUE
TO BE A NECESSITY FOR SOME FOR
NOW WHILE STILL ENSURING THE
POLICY WE'VE ADOPTED WILL HELP
US GET WHERE WE WANT TO GO NOW
I ACTUALLY KIND OF THOUGHT THIS
WAS MOSTLY SUBTLE.
I THOUGHT THAT THE DOCTRINE
OF CONTINUING NON CONFORMING
USE WAS SUFFICIENT TO ADDRESS
THOSE NEAR-TERM NEEDS.
I'M HESITANT TO SUPPORT YOU ALL
GOING ANY FURTHER THAN THAT IN
ONE SENSE AND YEAH, YOU KNOW I
CAN ALSO SEE THE RATIONALE THAT
SAYS WE SHOULD MAKE TAKE ONE
MORE CONSISTENT WITH ONE
OF THESE TWO.
I DON'T KNOW MAYBE THE ANSWER
IS THAT THESE NEED OR THE
DISTRICTS THAT NEED TO CHANGE
HERE NOT TO SEE ONE SO IN ANY
CASE, IF YOU DO FEEL THE NEED
TO DO SOMETHING, I THINK
ALLOWING SOME OF THESE USES A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES
CONSISTENT WITH THE CURRENT
STANDARD SOUTHTOWN IS THE MOST
YOU SHOULD DO TONIGHT.
I THINK ALLOWING THESE THINGS
TO BE RIGHT IS TOTALLY
CONTRADICTORY TO WHAT WE'RE
TRYING TO ACCOMPLISH HERE.
>> I DO NOT BELIEVE IT WILL
ADVANCE OUR GOALS.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS MICHELLE
HUGHES.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE QUESTION.
HI.
I TOO AM SHOCKED AND HORRIFIED
TO SEE OUR USERS BEING PUT ON
AS A BY RIGHTS PRIMARY USE ONE
BECAUSE IT WAS MY UNDERSTANDING
THAT THE WHOLE POINT OF ONE IS
TO TAKE THESE NEIGHBORHOODS
THAT ARE ON TRANSIT CORRIDORS
BUT ARE CURRENTLY HORRIFYING
DEATH STRADS AND TURN THEM INTO
COMFORTABLE WALKABLE
NEIGHBORHOODS AND ALLOWING CAR
USERS THERE IS THE OPPOSITE
OF THAT AND I COULD I CAN KIND
OF UNDERSTAND WHEN THEY SAID
THAT WHEN SOMEBODY HAVING A
RENTAL CAR WINDOW WITHIN
WALKING DISTANCE MAKES IT
EASIER TO NOT HAVE A CAR BUT
HAVING A CAR SALES DEFINITELY
DOES NOT MAKE ME HERE TO NOT
HAVE A CAR THAT'S PROMOTING CAR
USE RIGHT.
AND YOU KNOW IT'S A CAR A CAR
SALES, LOT OF CAR REPAIR THAT
IS NOT GOING TO BE THE KIND
OF THING THAT'S FUN TO WALK BY
EVEN IF IT'S AN UNATTRACTIVE
YOU SEE ONE BUILDING.
IT'S NOT SOMETHING THAT'S GOING
TO BE ACTIVATING THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND THESE ARE
NEIGHBORHOODS THAT NEED A LOT
OF HELP BECAUSE THEY'RE
CURRENTLY HORRIFYING DEXTROSE
AND SO I WANT TO GO AS FAR AS
WE CAN IN SIGNALING THAT CARS
ARE GUESTS HERE AND AREN'T THE
PRIMARY RESIDENTS OF THESE
NEIGHBORHOODS BECAUSE THERE'S
GOING TO BE A GREAT TEMPTATION
TO MAKE CAR USE THIS YEAR AND
APPLY FOR SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
THIS IS OUR SPECIAL EXCEPTION.
THIS IS AVAILABLE FOR THESE
TYPES OF THESE TYPES
OF PURPOSES AND YOU KNOW, EVEN
IF YOU CAN MAKE A CAR REPAIR
LOFT DOWNTOWN, PEOPLE ARE LESS
LIKELY TO DO THAT BECAUSE
THAT'S JUST NOT WHAT IS
HAPPENING IN DOWNTOWN RIGHT NOW
BUT IN THESE TERRIFYING DEATH.
YES, CAR MOTORS EXACTLY WHAT'S
HAPPENING HERE.
SO WE NEED TO GO FURTHER IN
COUNTERING THE CAR CULTURE.
SO PLEASE DO NOT ALLOW THESE
CARS THIS NEW AND WHAT'S BEEN
HAPPENING WITH YOU SEE ONE.
THANKS.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS BRAD PITT
AND ONE MORE HAND RAISED AFTER
BRAD PITT.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE QUESTION.
THANK YOU FOR THE OPPORTUNITY
TO SPEAK TO YOU.
BRAD FRITZE FROM THIRTY THIRTY
LEXINGTON WARD TWO AND I AM ONE
OF DEPENDING ON THE PLYMOUTH
CORRIDOR OR SO I WATCH THIS
WITH INTEREST.
LET ME TAKE A DIFFERENT VIEW
FROM ANY OF THE OTHER SPEAKERS
.
>> LET ME SAY I AGREE VERY MUCH
WITH THE LONG TERM GOALS OF ONE
SUSTAINABILITY AND
AFFORDABILITY.
THOSE ARE BOTH ISSUES FOR OUR
CITY THAT ARE VERY, VERY
IMPORTANT.
>> LET ME THROW AT FOR THOSE
OF US INCLUDING MYSELF AND MY
WIFE FOR MOBILITY CHALLENGED
THE ABILITY
TO HAVE ANY USE
OF A CAR IS VERY IMPORTANT AND
WILL BE FOR THE REST OF MY LIFE
HOWEVER LONG THAT MIGHT.
AND SO LET ME SAY I LIKE YOUR
APPROACH TO SAY LET'S HAVE MORE
FOR THE BUILDING LESS CAR
CENTRIC COMMUNITY, MORE CARROTS
AND FEWER STICKS.
AND I THINK THE APPROACH
OF LET'S LOOK AT THE FORM AND
SO LONG AS WE USE FITS WITH OUR
FORM DESIGNS THEN IT SHOULD BE
ALLOWED TO GO.
YOU'RE NOT GOING TO GET A
MODERN CAR DEALER BUILDING
UNDER THESE CONSTRAINTS A CAR
REPAIR GUY ANYWAY, THAT'S MY
COMMENT.
THANK YOU AGAIN FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION.
OUR NEXT TENDERIZED IS ALEX
LOWE.
YOU CAN ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
.
HI.
GO AHEAD
.
>> HI THIS IS ALEX LOWE CALLING
AGAIN FROM LSU AND HE SENT OVER
TO SEE WHAT IS GREAT.
IT'S GREAT.
IT'S NOT PERFECT BUT IT'S GREAT
AND I REALLY AM LOOKING FORWARD
TO DEVELOPMENTS THAT MAKE IT
BETTER.
UNFORTUNATELY WITH WITH US
BEFORE PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
STUFF TO THEY DID WHAT WAS
WHAT'S PROPOSED HERE WITH
ALLOWING CAR CENTRIC BUSINESSES
IS BASICALLY A TROJAN HORSE
BEING OFFERED TO THE TCW SO
THAT IF ACCEPTED WOULD
FUNDAMENTALLY UNDERMINE ITS
PURPOSE.
SO MUCH OF THE CITY IS ALREADY
DEDICATED TO CAR CENTRIC
BUSINESSES AND ONE ISN'T GOING
TO FORCE EXISTING BUSINESSES TO
CHANGE WHAT WHAT THIS PROPOSAL
WOULD ALLOW IS NEW CAR CENTRIC
BUSINESSES TO REPLACE EXISTING
BUSINESSES THAT ARE FAR MORE
AMENABLE TO WALK ABILITY AND
FAR MORE IN LINE TO SEE WHAT IF
WE DO REALLY TRULY EAT TO ALLOW
THE ADDITION OF SOME NEW CAR
BACK TO BUSINESSES TO ADD TO
THAT UTC ONE, I THINK IT IS
REASONABLE TO ALLOW THEM ONLY
AS SPECIALISTS WITH THE
ADDITION OF THAT BUSINESS WILL
ACTUALLY IMPROVE THAT SEE ONE
AS OPPOSED TO BIRAK WHICH IS
JUST RIDICULOUS AT I'D ALSO
LIKE TO SEE SOME ADDITIONAL
REQUIRED TO ENSURE THAT THE
CHANGES ARE IN LINE WITH THE
CITY'S VISION TO REDUCE
CARBON EMISSIONS AND INCREASE
THE SUSTAINABILITY FOR FOR
EXAMPLE WHAT ONE BIG ONE IS
GOING TO ALLOW THIS TO BE THE
ONLY USE IF YOU IF YOU HAVE TO
HAVE A CAR RENTAL THAT'S GREAT.
PUT IT IN THE PARKING GARAGE
ALONG WITH A BUNCH OF RETAIL
POTPIES ECD SECOND LET'S LIMIT
THIS AND SAY OK, WE'RE ONLY
GOING TO ALLOW THIS IF ALL
OF THE CARS THERE ARE ELECTED
AND AND ALONG WITH THAT IT'S
MAKE SURE THAT THAT THAT ANY
OF THE ANY OF THE CARS ARE
BEING RENTED OUT ETC. THE
PROPERTY OWNER PROVIDES
RENEWABLE ENERGY AT TO REPLACE
ALL OF THE ENERGY CONSUMPTION
OF THOSE VEHICLES PERHAPS
ONSITE SOLAR PERHAPS ALSO
OFFSET WITH THANK YOU
.
>> THAT'S OUR LEFT HAND RAISED
MADAM CHAIR, THANK YOU.
UM, SO NOW WE WILL CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING AND I WILL READ
THE MOTION.
UH, SO THE INNER CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION RECOMMENDS THAT THE
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL APPROVE
AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE SECTION FIVE POINT ONE
FIVE POINT ONE SIX TO ALLOW
AUTOMOBILE MOTORCYCLE
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE EQUIPMENT
SALES AND RENTAL AS A PRIMARY
USE SECTION FIVE POINT FIFTEEN
TABLE FIVE POINT FIFTEEN ONE TO
ALLOW AUTOMOBILE TRUCK AND
CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT REPAIR
AS A PRIMARY USE SECTION FIVE
POINT FIFTEEN TABLE POINT
FIFTEEN ONE AND TO REDESIGN THE
TRANSIT ORDERED TO USE SPECIFIC
STANDARDS TO TO CLARIFY THE
APPLICATION OF STANDARDS
SECTION FIVE POINT SIXTEEN
TABLE FIVE POINT SIXTEEN DASH
TO MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER DASH WE CAN HAVE A
DISCUSSION COMMISSIONER THIS
OOPS.
I WANTED TO ASK A QUESTION
ABOUT UM THE IS THE DISTINCTION
BETWEEN PYRITE AND SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE BECOME LESS
SIGNIFICANT WHEN YOU ARE
WORKING WITH A FORM BASED
CODE THAT IS A GREAT QUESTION
AND I'M I'M NOT UM I GUESS I
DON'T KNOW I CAN I I CAN MULL
IT OVER AND I CAN THINK ABOUT
IT UM MY DEFINITE MY WORKING
DEFINITION OF A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION YOU YOU KNOW A DEPUTY
DISTRICT HAS A PERMITTED
PRINCIPAL USES MEANING THEY ARE
THEY ARE APPROPRIATE EVERYWHERE
ANYWHERE REGARDLESS OF CONTEXT
AND A SPECIAL EXCEPTION IS
SOMETHING THAT WOULD BE
APPROPRIATE IN THAT PARTICULAR
DISTRICT BASED ON CONTEXT.
UM, AND YES, I CAN SEE
ARGUMENTS WHERE IF YOU HAVE A
FORM BASE CODE THAT WITH WHICH
IS VERY HEAVY FORM BASE
CODE AND IT WOULD IF IT'S SO
STRONG IN FORM IT HAS DICTATED
THE IT HAS DICTATED THE CONTEXT
AND THEREFORE MAYBE THERE ARE
NO SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS USES IN A
FORM BASE CODE .
>> I WILL SAY THAT OUR UDC IS
NOT A FULL FORM IS CODE IT WE
BORROW ELEMENTS FROM IT BUT
IT'S NOT A FULL ON OFFICIAL
FORM BASE CODE .
SO I WANT TO SAY THAT THE
REASON I ASKED THAT QUESTION IS
BECAUSE AS I WAS READING THE
STAFF REPORT I WAS VERY I'M
LOOKING AT THE PUBLIC COMMENT
RIGHT NOW.
I THINK I PARAPHRASED IT BUT
THIS PART I DIDN'T EXISTING
FORM BASED STANDARDS MAKE US
MORE CONFIDENT TO PERMIT
LIMITED AUTOMOBILE RELATED
USES.
THAT'S MY PARAPHRASE RIGHT
THERE BECAUSE WE KNOW THAT
WHATEVER ELSE THEY WILL BE THEY
WILL HAVE TO CONFORM TO THE
THINGS THAT WE HAVE SAID YOU
HAVE TO DO IN TAKE ONE TO NOT
RECREATE THE LANDSCAPE OF A
1960S OR 1911 D SHOPPING MALL.
SO I WAS OPEN TO THAT
SUGGESTION IF I IF IT IS A
SUGGESTION ON YOUR PART PART
BUT I BUT I AM NOT SURE THAT I
THINK THAT THERE IS STILL A
PLACE FOR THE DISTINCTION
BETWEEN PERMITTED USES AND
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES EVEN
THOUGH WE'VE KIND OF WE'VE MADE
ALL USES CONFORM TO SOMETHING
THAT CREATES A DIFFERENT
ENVIRONMENT THAN WHAT IS
CURRENTLY ON THESE CORRIDORS.
IT MIGHT STILL BE THE CASE THAT
WE WANT TO CONSIDER CAREFULLY
WHAT KIND OF AUTO REPAIR OR
AUTO SALES IT IS AND I DON'T
THINK I WOULD BE SURPRISED IF
WE COULD WRITE INTO LAW.
WE'RE ONLY GOING TO SELL
ELECTRIC VEHICLES LIKE WE
PROBABLY CAN'T DO THAT BUT IF
IT'S A SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE WE
COULD THINK ABOUT WHICH DO WE
NEED A TRUCK DEALERSHIP AND
THAT WAS PROBABLY A RUDE THING
.
>> I DIDN'T MEAN THAT.
YEAH, RIGHT, EXACTLY.
I THE KIND OF TRUCKS THAT CAN
RUN MY HOUSE WHEN DTG COLLAPSES
.
SO SO I AM I AM I CAN SEE WHY
WE COULD USE BOTH.
IT'S NOT REDUNDANT AND I COULD
SEE ALSO THOUGH THAT UM THAT
EVEN IF IT'S NOT A PERMITTED
USE, EVEN IF IT'S A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE WE'VE STILL GOT
THE FLEXIBILITY TO ENCOURAGE
EXISTING USES TO MODIFY
THEMSELVES AND GET CLOSER TO
WHAT WE'RE LOOKING FOR RATHER
THAN SIMPLY BE PHASED OUT.
I THOUGHT THAT WAS ONE OF THE
VERY PERSUASIVE PARTS OF YOUR
MEMO THAT AS IT IS RIGHT NOW WE
KIND OF FREEZE WHATEVER'S THERE
IS FROZEN THE WAY IT IS AND
IT'S EITHER A CONFIRMING THING
AND THEN WE LIKE THAT WITH A
NONCONFORMING THING AND WE'RE
JUST WAITING FOR IT TO DIE.
BUT THAT COULD TAKE A LONG
TIME.
BAD THINGS LIVE A LONG TIME.
SO I I FEEL PERSUADED BY THAT
PART OF YOUR MEMO AROUND WHY WE
NEED TO BE OPEN TO THINKING
WE
DON'T HAVE A LONG TERM IT'S NOT
SO WE'RE TRYING TO PRESERVE
THESE USES ACTUALLY BECAUSE WE
WANT TO CHANGE THEM SO THAT OK,
I'M SORRY THAT'S LIKE TOO MUCH
OF MY THINKING OUT LOUD BUT OK
ELSE OK I'LL START WITH
QUESTIONS.
>> I HAVE A LOT OK I GOT A
REALLY TECHNICAL ON THIS ONE
YOU GOT I GOT SO I GUESS I JUST
MAYBE DEFINITION'S TO START OUT
SALES PERMANENT THAT'S NOT
OUTDOOR SALES OF CARS LIKE
THAT'S ALREADY PERMITTED PRIOR
TO USE.
CAN YOU GIVE AN EXAMPLE OUTDOOR
SALES PERMANENT WOULD BE WHEN
WE HAD A KMART AT MAPLE VILLAGE
IT HAD OUTDOOR SALES AREA WHICH
THEY USE SEASONALLY BUT THAT
WAS A PERMANENT OUTDOOR SALES
SPACE SHOWN ON THE SITE PLAN
WHERE THEY PUT STUFF FOR SALE
OUT THERE.
>> IT COULD BE LIKE A GARDEN
CENTER, A LUMBER YARD RIGHT
ADJACENT TO A BIG BOX OR
ANYTHING ELSE RIGHT?
>> I CANNOT THERE ARE VERY FEW
OF THOSE IN THE CITY.
IT'S A UM IT'S IN MOST ZONING
ORDINANCES THAT YOU IDENTIFY IT
AND REGULATE IT.
BUT THAT'S WHAT PERMANENT
OUTDOOR SALES THIS WOULD BE
COMPARED TO LIKE IF A GROCERY
STORE PUTS UP A TENT IN THEIR
PARKING LOT FOR TWO WEEKS IN
MAY TO DO FOR OUR SALES OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
>> BUT WE HAVE A TEMPORARY
OUTDOOR SALES AS WELL ABOUT THE
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN PERMANENT
OUTDOOR SALES AND TAMARA AND I
MIGHT TAKE OVER.
RIGHT.
I THINK THAT IN SPACES I'M NOT
CERTAIN BUT LIKE FOR EXAMPLE
BUILD BEER GARDEN MIGHT BE
PERMANENT OUTDOOR THINGS.
IT'S NOT THAT IT HAS PARKING
SPACES SO IT'S A VEHICULAR USE
AREA.
>> MAYBE THAT'S NOT MAYBE THAT
IS NOT THE ONE AVAILABLE THEN
BUT I LIKE BUT I GUESS HOW I
WORK.
>> YEAH SO I GUESS I ASK YOU
ABOUT THAT.
IS THERE EVER A CONDITION THAT
A VEHICULAR USE AREA AND A
SALES AREA WOULD OVERLAP AS THE
SAME SURFACE AREA
OR COULD BE
ADJACENT TO EACH OTHER?
SO I KNOW WE HAVE THE HERE YOU
SAY A HUNDRED PERCENT OF THE
BUILDING FOOTPRINT AREA BUT
COULD YOU GET LIKE IF YOU HAD A
HUNDRED THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT
SITE AND I HAVE TWENTY FIVE
THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT BUILDING
SO I HAD A SINGLE FIRST FLOOR
BUILDING I LIKE TO START
BUILDING TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND
SQUARE FOOTPRINT AND I CAN HAVE
A TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND SQUARE
FOOT VEHICULAR USE AREA BECAUSE
THAT WOULD MATCH THE ONE
HUNDRED PERCENT AND THEN COULD
I HAVE A TWENTY FIVE PERCENT OR
50 PERCENT OF MY LOT COVERAGE
BE OUTDOOR PERMANENT SALES SO
ALL OF A SUDDEN I HAVE A
FOOTPRINT OF TWENTY FIVE
PERCENT BUILDING COVERAGE AND
SEVENTY FOUR PERCENT OPEN AREA
.
I WOULD SAY YES AND NO.
YES YOU CAN HAVE THOSE THREE
USES ON YOUR SITE BUT THE THE
PERMANENT OUTDOOR SALES AREA
DOESN'T IT'S NOT BUILDING
FOOTPRINT SO IT DOESN'T
INCREASE YOUR SO IN THE ONE
DISTRICT IT DOESN'T COUNT
TOWARDS THE PERCENTAGE OR THE
SURFACE AREA MATCHING FOR THE
PARTICULAR AREA SO IT COULD IT
COULD BE ADDITIVE LIKE BUT WE
STILL HAVE MINIMUM MAXIMUM SET
BACK STANDARDS THAT WE NEED TO
COVER .
SO IT'S LIKE YOU CAN JUST
SQUISH YOUR BUILDING INTO A
POINT TOWER AND HAVE A BIG OPEN
SPACE PLAN IN DC AND A LOT
OF WELL YOU COULD HAVE THE BIG
OPEN SPACE PLAN BUT IT CAN'T BE
A BIG PARKING LOT.
RIGHT.
BUT IT COULD BE A BIG OPEN
OUTDOOR SALES.
>> IT COULD BE OK.
I JUST WANT TO LIKE I WAS NOW
THAT WE'RE ADDRESSING SHORT
TERM CAR STORAGE THAT'S A
PARKING LOT.
RIGHT.
WHAT IS SHORT TERM SCART VERSUS
MEDIUM TERM CAR?
>> BOTH ARE NOT ALLOWED IN IN
DC ONE RIGHT NOW.
>> BUT I JUST TO GET
DEFINITIONS OF ALL THIS OUT I
TELL YOU THE SHORT TERM CARS
THAT'S LIKE LESS THAN SEVEN
DAYS RIGHT?
OH WELL THEN I DID HIGHLIGHT
THEM BUT I JUST WANT TO LIKE
BECAUSE THEY WERE STILL A
LITTLE SHORT TERM SHORT ALL IT
IS IS THE SAME ONES HAVE AT
LEAST EIGHTY SEVEN THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET TWO ACRES
OF REGULAR USE AREA SO WE WOULD
NOT ALLOW A SITE TO BE THAT
LARGE EIGHTY SEVEN THOUSAND
SQUARE FOOT SIZE TWO ACRES TO
PARTICULAR USE WITH PARKING IS
APPROVED WITH DISTRICT AND AN
APPROVED SITE PLAN SO IT WOULD
HAVE TO RESULT IN ME UM SHORT
TERM AND VERY SHORT TERM CAR
STORAGE IS PARKING A PERSONAL
PRIVATELY OWNED VEHICLES IN
PARKING LOTS FOR UP TO 14 DAYS.
THIS IS USE IS TYPICALLY
ASSOCIATED WITH CAR SHARING
SERVICES OR PARK AND RIDE
SERVICES.
>> OK, AND THE ONLY PLACE
THAT'S CURRENTLY ELIGIBLE FOR
THIS IS THE BRYANT PARKING LOT.
>> OK, BECAUSE THAT'S NOT IN
OUR RENTALS BECAUSE THEY'RE NOT
PERSONALLY CORRECT.
>> OK, RIGHT.
SO THIS IS WHERE IF YOU WANT TO
TAKE THE AIR RIDE FROM
BRIARWOOD TO THE TO THE AIRPORT
AND LEAVE YOUR CAR THERE I
GUESS FOR FREE YOU CAN DO THAT
AND THEN THE MEDIUM TERM IT'S
LIKE THIRTY IS LIKE THIRTY DAYS
THAT ENABLES SOMEONE WITHIN THE
LARGE PARKING LOT TO SAY STORE
VEHICLES FOR THE DEFINED PERIOD
OF TIME WHICH I BELIEVE THIRTY
DAYS TO MORE EFFECTIVELY USE A
PARKING LOT.
BUT AGAIN IT'S FOR HOW TO
BETTER UTILIZE SUPER LARGE
PARKING LOTS SO YOUR SITE HAS
TO BE ZONED AND IT HAS TO HAVE
A CERTAIN SIZE AREA SO THOSE
USERS ARE NOT PERMITTED IN THE
DC ONE.
YEAH I JUST WANT TO KIND OF GET
A DEFINITION TO BE LIKE DOES
THIS FIT UNDER YOU KNOW WHY
ISN'T CAR SALES MEDIUM OR SHORT
TERM CAR STORAGE YOU KNOW,
OUTDOOR CAR STORAGE SORT THING
THAT'S I JUST WANT TO KIND
OF LIKE UNDERSTAND WHY WE HAVE
THESE SEPARATE CATEGORIES AND
WHAT EXACTLY FALLS INTO IT.
SO YEAH, SO IT COULD BE I'M
JUST TRYING TO DENHA SCENARIO
LIKE I WOULD MY GIVE SPACE IN
THEIR PARKING AREA WHEN THEY
GET EXTRAS LIKE AN OVERSIZE
SHIPMENT OF CARS FOR THEIR
DEALERSHIP THAT DON'T FIT ON
THEIR LOT.
SO YEAH YEAH BRIARWOOD HAS
AFTER THIS CAME FROM UM I THINK
AT THE TIME IT WAS WRITTEN
THERE WAS A MANUFACTURER THAT
WAS DOING RECALLS MAYBE
VOLKSWAGEN OR SOMETHING AND A
NEARBY DEALERSHIP RECEIVED A
BIG INFLUX OF CARS THAT THEY
NEEDED TO ADDRESS AND THEY
COULDN'T STORE THEM ON THEIR
SITE SO THEY WERE STORED OFF
SITE AND YES, I THINK THIS IS
THAT'S WHAT YOU'RE GETTING AT
SAY YOU HAVE A LARGE SHIPMENT
OF VEHICLES THAT ARE NOT
PERSONALLY OWNED.
YOU DON'T NEED THERE'S NO POINT
IN YOU DON'T WANT SOMEONE TO
BUILD A NEW PARKING LOT JUST
FOR THIS.
ONE PURPOSE IS TO UTILIZE
EXISTING BUT THAT'S WHERE IT
IS.
I THINK MAYBE WHAT YOU'RE GOING
I WONDER IF YOU'RE WHEN WHEN
STEPH WAS CONSIDERING ALLOWING
THE AUTOMOBILE SALES AND SALES
AND RENTAL.
I THINK THAT THE DEALERSHIP THE
SHOWROOM PORTION IS NOT THE
OBJECTIONABLE PART.
THAT'S WHERE IF YOU ARE INSIDE
OF A BUILDING.
YEAH.
YOU KNOW, THERE'S A POPULATION
OUT THERE WHO MAY THINK WALKING
PAST A SHOWROOM IS GREAT LIKE
SEE THE NEW SHINY CARS.
IT'S THE OUTDOOR STORAGE OF THE
NEW INVENTORY.
THAT'S THE OBJECTIONABLE PART
AND IN AND I WOULD ARGUE IN THE
TAXI ONE DISTRICT THOUGH THAT
DEALER OWNER WILL HAVE TO MAKE
A HARD CHOICE.
YOU'RE ONLY ALLOWED SO MANY
PARKING SPACES BASED ON YOUR
BUILDING SIZE.
ARE YOU GOING TO USE THOSE FOR
NEW VEHICLE INVENTORY?
CUSTOMER OR EMPLOYEE PARKING?
ARE YOU GOING TO USE THOSE FOR
AND IF YOU'RE IN A MIXED USE
CUSTOMER OR EMPLOYEE PARKING?
WITH LIKE AN AUTO DEALERSHIP ON
AND IF YOU'RE IN A MIXED USE
THE FIRST FLOOR SOMETHING ABOVE
WITH LIKE AN AUTO DEALERSHIP ON
IT YOU'VE GOT TO BALANCE IF
THE FIRST FLOOR SOMETHING ABOVE
YOU'RE PROVIDING THAT PARKING.
IT YOU'VE GOT TO BALANCE IF
I THINK THIS IS WHERE SOME
YOU'RE PROVIDING THAT PARKING.
OF THE SHORT TERM MEDIUM TERM
I THINK THIS IS WHERE SOME
PARKING COME INTO PLAY.
OF THE SHORT TERM MEDIUM TERM
>> YOU CAN YOU CAN BUY EVEN A
PARKING COME INTO PLAY.
CAR ONLINE.
>> YOU CAN YOU CAN BUY EVEN A
YOU DON'T WE CAN HAVE
CAR ONLINE.
BUSINESSES THAT SEPARATE THE
YOU DON'T WE CAN HAVE
SHOWROOM FROM THE INVENTORY
BUSINESSES THAT SEPARATE THE
SPOT AND I THINK WITH SOME
SHOWROOM FROM THE INVENTORY
OF OUR REASONING WHY IF A
SPOT AND I THINK WITH SOME
BUSINESS SUCH AS AUTO SALES OR
OF OUR REASONING WHY IF A
RENTAL WAS WILLING TO MEET OUR
BUSINESS SUCH AS AUTO SALES OR
FORM STANDARDS, WE CAN YOU CAN
RENTAL WAS WILLING TO MEET OUR
BE THAT FIRST FOR USE THEY WILL
FORM STANDARDS, WE CAN YOU CAN
HAVE TO FIGURE OUT SOMEPLACE
BE THAT FIRST FOR USE THEY WILL
ELSE FOR WHERE THEY STORE THEIR
HAVE TO FIGURE OUT SOMEPLACE
VEHICLES IN A MORE APPROPRIATE
ELSE FOR WHERE THEY STORE THEIR
PERIOD.
VEHICLES IN A MORE APPROPRIATE
>> SO I GUESS I'M WORKING KIND
PERIOD.
OF BACKWARDS FROM THE LOGIC
>> SO I GUESS I'M WORKING KIND
OF IF WE'RE SELLING CARS VERSUS
OF BACKWARDS FROM THE LOGIC
TVS, YOU KNOW, STORING PRODUCTS
OF IF WE'RE SELLING CARS VERSUS
FOR SALE, A CAR IS A PRODUCT IN
TVS, YOU KNOW, STORING PRODUCTS
STORAGE.
FOR SALE, A CAR IS A PRODUCT IN
>> IS THAT DIFFERENT?
STORAGE.
YOU KNOW, IS THAT DIFFERENT
>> IS THAT DIFFERENT?
THAN A CAR?
YOU KNOW, IS THAT DIFFERENT
YOU KNOW, A CAR VERSUS A
THAN A CAR?
PRODUCT RELATIVE TO WHAT WE
YOU KNOW, A CAR VERSUS A
CALL THE SPACE THAT IT'S STORED
PRODUCT RELATIVE TO WHAT WE
IN AND I GUESS WHAT I WANT TO
CALL THE SPACE THAT IT'S STORED
CONFIRM IS THAT THERE'S NO
IN AND I GUESS WHAT I WANT TO
WIGGLE ROOM THAT A PARKING
CONFIRM IS THAT THERE'S NO
SPACE IS ALSO A CAR STORAGE
WIGGLE ROOM THAT A PARKING
SPACE RELATIVE TO THESE TWO
SPACE IS ALSO A CAR STORAGE
USES LIKE THERE'S NO OTHER
SPACE RELATIVE TO THESE TWO
SPACE THAT A DEVELOPER COULD
USES LIKE THERE'S NO OTHER
BUILD OUT TO INCREASE THE
SPACE THAT A DEVELOPER COULD
AMOUNT OF PLACES YOU COULD PUT
BUILD OUT TO INCREASE THE
A CAR ON A S.A.C. ONE LIKE
AMOUNT OF PLACES YOU COULD PUT
MAXIMUM PARKING REQUIREMENTS
A CAR ON A S.A.C. ONE LIKE
AND THAT WOULD BE THE ONE TO
MAXIMUM PARKING REQUIREMENTS
ONE MEASUREMENT OF OUR FORM
AND THAT WOULD BE THE ONE TO
BASE CODE OF HOW MANY CARS YOU
ONE MEASUREMENT OF OUR FORM
COULD STORE BOTH UP TO LIKE
BASE CODE OF HOW MANY CARS YOU
FIXING A TRUCK OR SELLING.
COULD STORE BOTH UP TO LIKE
>> YOU HAVE EIGHTY PARKING
FIXING A TRUCK OR SELLING.
SPACES YOU
STOCK AND THAT YOU
CAN'T SAY OH WELL THAT'S MY
OUTDOOR SALES AREA AND YOU PARK
THEM BUMPER TO BUMPER LIKE THAT
,CAN YOU PARK CARS BUMPER TO
BUMPER AN OUTDOOR SALES AREA
FOR A DEALERSHIP?
I I DO THINK THAT SO ABSENT THE
PERMANENT OUTDOOR SALES, I
THINK THE TCW DISTRICT IS TIGHT
IN THAT REGARD.
I DO THINK THE DEFINITION
OF PERMANENT OUTDOOR SALES
WOULD ALLOW AN OUTDOOR AUTO
DEALERSHIP OUTSIDE OF THEIR
PARKING COUNTS.
YES.
NOW NOW WE COULD ALSO HAVE A
DISCUSSION ABOUT IS INVENTORY A
STORAGE PART OF THE SALES AREA
OR IS OUTDOOR OUTDOOR STORAGE
RIGHT.
>> IS IT RIGHT AND THE SALES
ARE THE PEOPLE WHO WALK THROUGH
TO LOOK AT THE INVENTORY OR IS
IT LONG TERM STORAGE THAT ONLY
STAFF CAN ACCESS TO LIKE GRAB
THE KEYS AND SHUFFLE IT AROUND?
>> I'M JUST TRYING TO BREAK
THIS INTO A SAVVY CAR DEALER
WOULD EXPAND THE AMOUNT
OF FOOTPRINT FOR OUTDOOR CARS
AND I GUESS THAT'S WHAT I
REALLY SEE OUTDOOR SALES
PERMANENT IS VAGUE ENOUGH TO
MAYBE ALLOW CARS TO ALSO CREEP
INTO THAT AREA ALONG WITH THAT
100 PERCENT BUILDING FOOTPRINT
PARKING AREA AS LIKE A MOMENT
OF CONFLICT OR DOUBLING DOWN ON
HOW MANY CARS WE ACTUALLY ARE
GOING TO SEE ON ANY ONE ON JUST
LIKE IS THAT LIKE I I WOULD AS
STAFF I WOULD SAY I THINK I SEE
IN BLACK AND WHITE THE THREAD
THE NEEDLE I THINK IN A HIGHLY
MOTIVATED PERSON MIGHT BE ABLE
TO PRESENT THIS OR AT LEAST
APPLY TO DO BOTH, RIGHT.
YEAH YEAH.
BUT I THINK OF ALL OF THE USES
THAT ARE PERMITTED IN THE D.C.
ONE DISTRICT AND WHERE THE D.C.
ONE DISTRICT IS GOING TO BE
LOCATED I DON'T SEE THAT AS
BEING A CAR DEALERS BEST OPTION
TO DO LIKE CAR THE SALES AND
USE IS NOT THE ONLY USE
PERMITTED IN THE DISTRICT.
IT'S ONE OF MANY USES AND I
DON'T SEE THE DEMAND FOR BRAND
NEW AUTO DEALERSHIPS.
I THINK THE CLASSIC AUTO
DEALERSHIPS DO NOT WANT TO BE
ON STADIUM ANYMORE.
THEY'VE MOVED OUT ACTUALLY WHAT
WE MAY SEE ARE THE SORT
OF ONLINE BASED OR SOMEBODY WHO
JUST WANTS TO SHOWROOM A MORE
NEWER MODERN THE NEWEST CAR
DEALERSHIP ON STADION BOULEVARD
THAT WE'VE SEEN IS IT WAS A
FIAT DEALERSHIP OFFICE AND IT'S
THE POST OFFICE AND NOW IT'S
TURNED INTO THE CAR.
RIGHT.
I THINK THAT THAT'S PROBABLY
MORE LIKELY WHAT WE'RE GOING TO
SEE JUST BECAUSE THAT IS THE
WAY AUTO VEHICLE SALES ARE ARE
MOVING AND WITH LAND VALUES THE
WAY THAT THEY ARE, I I DON'T
SEE IT WORTH SOMEBODIES EFFORT
TO WORK THAT HARD.
IT WOULD BE MUCH EASIER TO MUCH
EASIER.
>> AND SO THAT'S MY I TINY BANK
FOOTPRINT WELL IS WORTH A
MILLION BY VACANT OFFICE
BUILDING AND YOU KNOW SO THAT'S
WHAT I HAVE CONCERNS BECAUSE
THERE ARE ESPECIALLY A COUPLE
OF LARGE LOTS THAT IF BUILDING
CONSTRUCTION IS EXCEPTIONALLY
HIGH BEING ABLE TO BUILD THE
MINIMUM VIABLE BUILDING, UH,
UTILIZE THE MAXIMUM AMOUNT
OF CURRENTLY AVAILABLE LAND
AREA TO JUST TURN CARS ACTUALLY
SEEMS LIKE A FEASIBLE OPTION TO
BAKERMAN.
>> OUR EXPERIENCE IN DOWNTOWN
HOWEVER HAS BEEN NOT THE
MINIMUM SIZE BUILDING THAT YOU
CAN POSSIBLY GET BUT THE MAX
THE ONE SIZE BUILDING THAT YOU
CAN GET.
>> RIGHT.
I LIKE IT RIGHT NOW ALL
OF DOWNTOWN IS WALKABLE.
WE'RE TRYING TO MOVE THAT WAY
AND CHANGE THAT KIND OF VOLUME
RESTRICTION.
I DON'T THINK WE'RE THERE YET
AND SO THAT'S WHERE WE NEED TO
BE ABLE TO KIND OF STOP THAT
MOMENTUM IN THE WRONG DIRECTION
.
AND MY CONCERN IS WE'LL PENCIL
OUT NOW MIGHT NEED TO PUT A LOT
OF CARS IF YOU CAN FIT SOME
OF THEM IN YOUR PARKING AREA
AND SOME OF THE HARDWARE SALES
AREA AS A CONSIDERATION.
SO I SO I'M JUST PARKING
STRUCTURES ACCESS FOR USE.
RIGHT.
THAT'S WHAT I HAVE TO KEEP THAT
PARKING STRUCTURE NECESSARY IS
IN THE DC WONDERSTRUCK WHICH
MEAN THAT'S JUST USE SO YOU
HAVE TO HAVE A PRIMARY USE AND
AND I KNOW WE KIND OF HAVE GONE
BACK AND FORTH FOR
CLARIFICATION.
I THINK IT'S PRETTY CLEAR THE
FOOTPRINT OF VEHICULAR USE AREA
WHICH IS OUTSIDE THE BUILDING
CAN BE ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
OF THE BUILDING FOOTPRINT.
BUT ONCE YOU GET INSIDE OF THAT
FORM THAT CAN BE A BUILDING
STRUCTURE AS LONG AS IT DOESN'T
EXCEED OUR PARKING MAXIMUMS.
SO I CAN HAVE LIKE THREE
STORIES OF PARKING IN THE
BUILDING TO GET UP TO MY
PARKING MAXIMUMS EVEN IF THE
SQUARE FOOTAGE OF PARKING AREA
BETWEEN THE VEHICULAR USE AREA
AND MY PARKING STRUCTURE IS
MORE THAN THE FOOTPRINT OF A
BUILDING.
>> YES AND THAT'S WHAT IT SAYS
.
IT SAYS WE ARE LIMITING THE
SURFACE AREA DEVOTED TO PARKING
BUT WE ARE NOT.
>> BUT THAT IS NOT ONE IN THE
SAME AS THE MAXIMUM NUMBER
OF PARKING SPACES.
YEP, SO VAN I'LL GO ALL THE WAY
BACK TO REPEATING MYSELF ABOUT
ADAPTIVE REUSE AND PARKING
STRUCTURES AND HOW WE TYPICALLY
IN AMERICA WELCOME THE SLIP
FORCE WHICH ARE VERY HARD TO
DEFINITELY REUSE VERSUS USING
THEM AS PLATFORMS WITH YOU KNOW
LIKE SPYRO ACCESS POINTS.
AND SO IF THERE IS
ALTERNATIVELY ANOTHER WAY FOR
THIS TO KIND OF GET LEVERAGE TO
REALLY I KNOW WE HAVE PARKING
MAXIMUMS BUT TO REALLY MAXIMIZE
OUR PARKING STORAGE THERE MAY
BE A HIGHER LIKELIHOOD THAT
WE'RE SEEING PARKING STRUCTURES
WHICH ARE NOT READILY ADAPTABLE
UNLESS WE REALLY INTO OUR
CODE OF FORM BASED REQUIREMENT
OF HOW THOSE ARE DESIGNED TO BE
HORIZONTAL SLABS.
RIGHT.
WHICH I BELIEVE IS THAT I THINK
IT'S INEVITABLE OR THAT
BUILDING CODE LIKE YOU KNOW I
MEAN WE CURRENTLY DO NOT HAVE
ANY SUCH STANDARDS FOR PARKING
STRUCTURES.
>> THEY CAN BE ADDED.
>> THAT'S A FORM BASED THING.
SO I'M JUST GONNA PUT THAT ONE
OUT THERE TO AND I GUESS IT'S
JUST CIRCLES BACK TO CAR STORE
DOES CAR STORAGE EQUAL PARKING
MAXIMUMS AND RELATIVE TO A
SAVVY OUTDOOR PERMANENT
SALESPERSON WE MIGHT BE ABLE TO
THREAD AN EVIL I WILL SAY WHAT
I DID FIND INTERESTING WAS FIVE
POINT SIXTEEN POINT THREE C
WHICH ALLOWED OR REQUIRED IN
THE C TO BE DISTRICT STORAGE
AND REPAIR OF AUTOMOBILES,
TRUCKS AND CONSTRUCTION
EQUIPMENT MUST BE LOCATED IN AN
ENCLOSED BUILDING THAT SEEMED
LIKE SOMETHING WHEN I TALKED TO
YOU I WAS AMENDMENTS TO INCLUDE
ALONG WITH C TO BE TCE ONE TO
MAKE SURE THAT THE REPAIR
OF AUTOMOBILES ISN'T HAPPENING
OUTSIDE THAT WE KIND OF CAPTURE
MORE OF THAT MAYBE ON THE
GROUND BACK OF THE BUILDING
SORT OF THING IF WE'RE TRYING
TO HOLD MORE IN A BUILDING TO
GET MORE BUILDING DOING THE
SAME MEASURES THAT WE'RE DOING
FOR C TO BE RELATIVE TO THE
SAME USE MIGHT BE A ANOTHER
RESTRICTION WE MIGHT WANT TO
APPLY.
ALTERNATIVELY SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USE.
SO I SAW THAT AS MAYBE A
BENEFIT FOR THE REPAIR IT MAY
ISN'T APPLIED TO ANYWHERE FOR
AUTO SALES OR RENTAL AND THAT'S
WHERE I JOSELO WITH LIKE IS IT
A BENEFIT TO PUT THAT IN A
BUILDING?
>> DO WE GET MORE SLEEP FOR US?
DO WE NEED TO GO READ ANOTHER
PORTION OF THE AMENDMENT TOO.
SO I'M JUST GOING TO PUT THAT
ON THE TABLE BEFORE I COME BACK
IF MAYBE THAT'S OPENED UP SOME
THOUGHTS FOR OTHER
COMMISSIONERS AND I THINK THE
LAST THING RELATIVE TO THE 70
PERCENT THIRTY TO FORTY FIVE
FEET IS JUST ADJACENT TO
RESIDENTIAL ZONING.
>> I KNOW WE'RE GOING TO TALK
ABOUT CLUB SHOULD BE
RESIDENTIAL USE IS RELEVANT
SHOULD IT JUST BE ADJACENT TO
DISTRICTS REQUIRING A CLUB A
CONFLICTION LAND USE BUFFER
JUST SEMANTICS OF CALLING IT
RESIDENTIAL ZONING VERSUS
RESIDENTIAL USE BUT SAY THAT
FIRST PART AGAIN.
>> SO IN THE CERTAINLY GO TO
THE TABLE IN THE TABLE IF I CAN
FIND IT AGAIN SORRY IS 70
PERCENT LOT WITH PROVIDED THIS
ALLOWS THIRTY FEET BETWEEN
BUILDING INSIDE SIDE LOT
NORMALLY OR FORTY FIVE FEET
BETWEEN THE BUILDING AND
SIDEWALK WHEN ENERGY WHEN
ADJACENT TO A RESIDENTIAL
ZONING AND I UNDERSTAND THAT TO
BE PURPOSEFULLY TO HELP SUPPORT
THE CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFER
TO GIVE SOME SPACE THE REQUIRED
SET BACK IT'S JUST 70 PERCENT
WITH THAT WIGGLE ROOM FOR THAT
REASON RIGHT?
>> YEAH THAT IS THOSE WILL BE
CONFLICTING LAND USE BUFFER
SECTION IN THE LANDSCAPING
SECTION SAYS THAT ONE DISTRICT
ONLY NEEDS TO BE BUFFORD
WHITTED ADJACENT TO A
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT OR
A PARK.
>> OK, SO WE DON'T HAVE TO
WORRY ABOUT THE OTHER BECAUSE
WE ALL YES WE LANGUAGE
TIGHTENED IN THE DOWNTOWN AREA
AND IN THE SECOND DISTRICT WE
DO NOT REQUIRE BUFFERING FROM
LAND USED FOR RESIDENTIAL.
THIS WOULD BE INTRODUCING
COMPLETELY MESSAGES BUFFERS ON
WHAT MAYBE EVERY SINGLE LOT
WOULD NEED A BUFFER FROM EVERY
SINGLE ONE.
RIGHT.
YOU'D BE POSSIBLY HAVING THIRTY
FEET OF BUILDING BREAKING UP
THAT STREET WELL WHICH IS NOT
WHAT WE WANTED.
>> RIGHT RIGHT.
OK UM OK THOSE ARE MINE FOR NOW
SO I WOULD SAY LIKE IN SUMMARY
THE THINGS THAT I'M CONSIDERING
ARE HOW MUCH DO WE OPEN THIS UP
FOR CAR STORAGE BASED ON WHAT
WE CURRENTLY HAVE AS PERMITTED
USES CONCERNS ABOUT WHAT WE'RE
DOING EXTERIOR VERSUS WHAT WE
MIGHT WANT TO INCLUDE IN THE
BUILDING SIMILAR TO WHAT WE
HAVE IN FIVE, SIX, THREE C FOR
REPAIR AND WHAT WE THINK ABOUT
PARKING STRUCTURES IN THEIR
BUILDING FORM STANDARDS
IF
ANYONE ELSE THIS COMMENT
COMMISSIONERSHIP OK, YOU'RE
MAKING ME THINK A LOT AND IT'S
TOO LATE FOR THAT.
IT'S A REALLY EASY QUESTION TO
START.
YOU'RE JUST SORT OF GOING
THROUGH AND BECAUSE YOU'RE LIKE
THE ONE LIKE YOU SAID A HUNDRED
FEET OFF THE TABLE.
>> CLARIFICATION'S LOOK SO MUCH
EASIER TO READ.
>> SO THANK YOU.
SINGLE INTERSECTION AWESOME
CHANGE IF YOU HAD A BUILDING
THAT WAS LIKE PART OF IT WAS
ONE HUNDRED FEET BUT PART OF IT
WAS FEET WHICH IS ALL THE SAME
BUILDING COULD COULD YOU COULD
HAVE RESIDENTIAL PAST ONE
HUNDRED FEET RIGHT OK YEAH OK
THE REASON THAT WE'RE INCLUDING
SALES AND REPAIR AND RENTALS
ALL SORT OF TOGETHER FROM THE
COUNCIL RESOLUTION SORT OF TO
PROVIDE FLEXIBILITY.
>> RIGHT.
SO LIKE IF YOU HAD A CAR RENTAL
IF WE DIDN'T HAVE AN ENTERPRISE
ON THIS CORRIDOR, IF WE DIDN'T
HAVE THEM ALL SORT OF TOGETHER,
IF THEY WANTED TO SELL THE
VEHICLES, I THINK THEY DO THAT
WOULD NOT BE ALLOWED.
RIGHT.
IS THAT SORT OF WHY WE'RE
CONSIDERING ALL ALL OF THESE
USES SORT OF TOGETHER?
>> WELL, ARE TWO IN OUR CURRENT
FORMAT THEY'RE JUST TWO USES.
ONE IS SALES AND RENTAL.
>> OH THAT'S ONE TOGETHER.
OK AND THEN REPAIRS.
WELL HERE IS ONE AND THE
DEFINITION OF REPAIR ALMOST
MAKES IT SEEM LIKE PUTTING
WINDSHIELD WIPERS ON IT WHEN
THE STAFF OF THE AUTO PARTS
STORE PUTS WINTER WIPERS ON
THAT BECOMES AN AUTO REPAIR.
I MEAN AND SO LIKE AND YEAH AND
THE RENTAL CAR AND EVEN
TECHNICALLY THE SALES PART EVEN
IF YOU ARE IF A CLASSIC CAR
KIND OF GUY AND YOU'RE JUST
SITTING YOUR HOME ON YOUR
COMPUTER ON THE INTERNET LIKE
DEALING LIKE BUYING FROM ONE
GUY AND SELLING IT TO ANOTHER
GUY YOU NEVER TAKE POSSESSION
OF THE CAR.
YOU'RE STILL A CAR DEALER BUT
IT COVERS THE GAMUT BUT SALES
AND SALES AND RENTAL IS ONE
YOU'VE GOT TO REPAIR IS ONE YOU
AND THAT'S WHERE MY HEAD IS AT
RIGHT NOW.
I AM I GUESS WE'RE LEANING ON
THE THE FORM BASE COAT ASPECT
OF IT SO WE KNOW THAT WE'RE
LIMITING ANY USE TO BE TO LOOK
LIKE HOW WE WANT IT TO LOOK TO
HAVE THE WALKABILITY ASPECTS
OF IT THAT WE WANT THEM TO HAVE
.
BUT WHAT YOU JUST SAID ABOUT
LIKE KIND OF BREAKING IT
ESPECIALLY WITH THE PARKING
GARAGE THING I WOULD BE OPEN TO
LIKE FORUM BASED PARKING
GARAGES IF THAT'S SOMETHING
THAT WE CAN DO BECAUSE LIKE I
HADN'T EVEN THOUGHT OF UNTIL I
READ THE OTHER WEEK ABOUT LIKE
THE ANGLE PARKING AND LIKE YOU
CAN'T JUST ADAPTIVELY REUSE
THAT AND I DO STILL SORT
OF THINK THAT WE'RE IN AN
INFLECTION POINT IN A CITY
WHERE LIKE PEOPLE ARE SO
RELIANT ON VEHICLES FOR BETTER
OR WORSE AND I GUESS I'M MAYBE
A LITTLE MORE CAUTIOUS AND
MAYBE I'M BEING NAIVE BUT LIKE
I'M SORT OF ON YOUR LIKE WHAT
YOU'RE SAYING ABOUT THE WAY
THAT PEOPLE ARE DOING BUSINESS
LIKE I DON'T I DON'T SEE LIKE
THESE BIG CAR DEALERSHIPS
TRYING TO LOCATE ON STADIUM
LIKE THEY'RE GOING TO GO OUT TO
THE TOWNSHIPS WHERE THEY
ACTUALLY HAVE ROOM IF THEY WANT
TO LIKE CAR DEALERSHIPS.
I WAS GOOGLING LIKE THAT THEY
CAN LOOK OK AND IF THEY'RE
GOING TO REPLACE SOMETHING THAT
ISN'T A FORM THAT WE WANT LIKE
MAYBE THAT'S OK.
I WOULD LIKE SOME MORE
CONVERSATION I THINK AROUND
THIS SPECIAL EXCEPTION BECAUSE
I'M TORN BECAUSE I THINK THAT
LIKE WE ALREADY KNOW WHAT WE
WANT TO PROVE IF WE MADE THE
SOCIAL EXCEPTION.
SO I'M KIND OF LIKE WHAT'S THE
POINT?
>> LIKE MAYBE WE SHOULD JUST
LIKE SAY WHAT WE WANT INSTEAD
PRETENDING THAT WE WOULD
ACTUALLY CONSIDER SOMETHING WE
DON'T WANT IF WE DON'T WANT
SOME OF THESE THINGS LIKE I'M
READY TO VOTE YES, I WANT TO
MOVE THIS ALONG BUT IF THERE
ARE THINGS THAT WE THINK ARE
LIKE DEAL BREAKERS LIKE A
LITTLE CONCERNED ABOUT THIS
LIKE OUTDOOR STORAGE THING THEN
LET'S TALK ABOUT IT BEFORE WE
SEND IT ON CLARK.
>> SO CAN I JUST CLARIFY ABOUT
THE PARKING THE SALES TO KIND
PICK THAT APART A LITTLE BIT
FURTHER?
SORRY.
SO I KNOW IT'S LIKE JACKSON
ROAD THERE'S A COUPLE
OF PARKING LOTS THAT ARE JUST I
DON'T KNOW THE BUILDINGS ARE
LONG GONE AND THERE'S JUST A
PARKING LOT AND IT'S KIND
OF JUST LIKE A BUDGET USED CAR
LOT WOULDN'T I MEAN I WOULDN'T
NECESSARILY THINK THAT SOMEONE
WOULD GO AND BUILD A CAR
PERHAPS A BIG PURPOSE BUT I
WORRY ABOUT IT DELAYING
PROGRESS WITH LIKE WELL IF YOU
CAN JUST RENT IT OUT FOR YOUR
VACANT PARKING LOT TO PUT, YOU
KNOW, A VERY MAKESHIFT CAR
DEALERSHIP THERE IS THEIR
INCENTIVE TO INVEST IN THAT
PARCEL OR ARE YOU JUST GOING TO
KEEP RENTING FOR THAT IMMEDIATE
PURPOSE FOR HOWEVER LONG I
GUESS THERE MIGHT BE SOMETHING
THAT'S ALREADY PREVENTING THAT.
BUT THERE ARE A COUPLE
OF EXAMPLES ON JACKSON ROAD YOU
JUST GO A LITTLE BIT WEST.
YEAH, THEY'VE BEEN THERE A
WHILE SO JUST CURIOUS IF THAT'S
A QUESTION I BELIEVE THAT WE WE
DO ALLOW THAT RIGHT NOW YOUR
PARKING LOT FOR CAR STORAGE BUT
IT'S NOT PERMITTED IN DC ONE.
SO WE HAVE A SO WE HAVE A WAY
TO IF THAT WERE TO OCCUR IN THE
DC ONE DISTRICT THAT'S A
VIOLATION OF THE ZONING
ORDINANCE AND WE WOULD AND WE
COULD ENFORCE IT IN THAT WAY IF
THAT WAS OCCURRING IN A PARKING
DISTRICT THAT WAS MET THE
THRESHOLD THAT'S ACTUALLY NOT A
VIOLATION THAT WOULD BE
CONFORMING.
BUT IN THE DC ONE DISTRICT THAT
WOULD BE A NOT NOT A PERMITTED
LAND USE AND THAT COULD BE
ENFORCED JUST FOR MY OWN
UNDERSTANDING.
I'M JUST WHAT'S THE DISTINCTION
BETWEEN THE SCENARIO THE
COMMISSIONER DESCRIBED WITH THE
WITH AN ENTERPRISING DEALERSHIP
THAT THEY WANTED TO FIND THAT
TECHNICALITY?
WHAT'S THE DISTINCTION BETWEEN
THEM JUST LIKE KIND OF LIKE
WHAT WOULD BE THE LIMITING
FACTOR?
>> SO I AS IT WERE ON OUR
WORKING INTERPRETATION HERE ON
A SITE THEY COULD HAVE A
BUILDING UP EXERCISE AND MAYBE
THE FIRST FLOOR OF THAT
BUILDING IS A CAR DEALERSHIP
AND THEY CAN HAVE A PARKING LOT
OF THE SAME SIZE AND SO MAYBE
THAT BECAUSE OF THE DEALERSHIP
SIZE, THE BUILDING SIZE MAYBE
THAT PARKING LOT IS FIFTY
SPACES OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT
AND THAT WOULD BE THAT FIFTY
SPACES WOULD BE UNLESS THEY
BUILT A PARKING STRUCTURE THAT
FIFTY SPACES WOULD BE EVERY USE
ON THE SITE INCLUDING CUSTOMERS
AND EMPLOYEES AND CAR INVENTORY
AND SALES INVENTORY AND SO
FORTH.
BUT IF THEY ALSO PUT A
PERMANENT OUTDOOR SALES AREA ON
A SITE PLAN SO THEY HAD NOT
ONLY THEIR BUILDING AND THE
VEHICLE WHOSE AREA THEY COULD
HAVE AN UNDETERMINED SIZE
OUTDOOR STORE OUTDOOR SALES
AREA WHERE THEY MAY DISPLAY X
NUMBER A FEW OR A LOT OF CARS
AND SO THEY WOULD BE TRYING TO
SAY THAT THIS THIS BIG AREA
OF CARS IS NOT CAR STORAGE.
>> THEY'RE LIKE THIS IS OUR
OUTDOOR CAR STORE THANKS.
IT KIND OF CLICKED PARTWAY
THROUGH AND THEN ONE MORE
QUESTION JUST KIND OF GONE FOR
JUST ANOTHER SCENARIO TO KIND
OF SO IF WE'RE WORRIED ABOUT
THINGS LIKE LET'S SAY
MINIMIZING CONFLICT POINTS WITH
PEDESTRIANS AND YOU'RE HAVING A
SHOWROOM THERE, WOULD WE WANT A
SCENARIO WHERE LET'S SAY HOW
MANY CUSTOMERS PER HOUR ARE
DRIVING IN AND OUT OF A VEHICLE
AND ADDING THOSE ENTERING AND
EXITING THROUGH AS OPPOSED TO A
DIFFERENT USE WHERE IT WOULD BE
PEOPLE MAYBE WALKING UP TO AN
URGENT CARE OR PEOPLE WALKING
UP TO ANY OTHER BUSINESS VERSUS
SOMETHING THAT'S ACTIVELY
ENCOURAGING CARS TO BE COMING
IN AND OUT.
AND I JUST JUST THINK ABOUT
OUTDOOR SALES.
YEAH, THAT'S WHERE I GUESS I
KNOW THIS ISN'T ISN'T THAT WHAT
WAS ON IT BUT KIND OF RUNNING
THROUGH SCENARIOS IF WE OPEN A
VALVE I FEEL LIKE THERE IS KIND
OF A VALVE TO KIND OF CLOSE TO
MITIGATE THE COMPOUNDING EFFECT
OF THIS AND I GUESS I SEE A FEW
WAYS FORWARD WHICH IF YOU
MAINTAIN OUTDOOR SALES IT
REALLY IS A SPECIAL EXCEPTION.
USE ALLOWS US TO MEASURE THE
FULL SLATE PLAN AS PRESENTED IF
THEY ARE TRYING TO DO THAT
PARKING IN THE OUTDOOR SALES WE
HAVE SOME DISCRETION TO THEN
EVALUATE OH THEY ARE TRYING TO
THREAD THIS NEEDLE.
THIS IS NOT THE INTENT AND THEN
WE CAN KIND OF PUSH BACK ON THE
DOUBLING UP OF OUTDOOR AREA
VERSUS BUILDING VOLUME THAT WE
WANT SO I THINK WE LIKE THE
CLEANEST WAY FOR ME I GUESS IS
I WANT IT IN THE BUILDING OR IN
THE BUILDING A FLAT FLOORS OR I
WANT IT TO BE A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION.
USE BECAUSE IT'S IT'S JUST TOO
MANY OPEN VALVES TO AND I
ABSOLUTELY LIKE I UNDERSTAND
KIND OF SALES GOING FOR LIKE
YEAH I'VE BEEN IN A LOT
OF CITIES YOU WALK BY ANY OTHER
THING AND IT'S I MEAN I THINK
IT SEEMS LIKE WE TALK ABOUT
VEHICLE SALES THIS WILL BE ON
TRACK BUT YOU KNOW IT'S LIKE
SCOOTER LIKE ALL SORTS
OF MOBILITY CAN REALLY BE IN
THESE STORE FRONTS FOR TEST
DRIVING.
I HEAR YOU SO I DON'T KNOW MLO
DISCUSSION SEE IF THERE'S AN
APP LIKE WHICH WAY I'M HAPPY TO
MAKE A MOTION BUT IT'S EITHER A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION OR INCLUDING
IT AS INTERIOR SPACES FOR
SOMEHOW MAYBE SELF-CONTAINED
LIKE WHAT'S ACTUALLY GOING TO
MOVE FORWARD.
IT'S LIKE I THINK THE SECOND
ONE GETS A LITTLE MESSY BECAUSE
WE'RE INVENTING A NEW KIND
OF FORM BASED WAIT
RECOMMENDATION MOVING UP THE
LADDER TO CITY COUNCIL I THINK
TO MY OPINION YEAH.
UM IS A SPECIAL EXCEPTION.
THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION SHOULD BE
USED WHEN IT'S JUST THE
CHARACTER AND THE INTENSITY
OF THE WIND ITSELF IS NOT
APPROPRIATE THROUGHOUT THE
DISTRICT.
UM AND KNOW AN EXAMPLE I OFTEN
USE AN TALKING TO SOMEONE IS
THE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
ALLOWED THE RESIDENTIAL USE
SINGLE FAMILY USES ALL OVER THE
PLACE THAT SAYS IF YOU'RE IN
THIS DISTRICT THE HOME THE
DWELLING IS PERMITTED BUT A
CHILD CARE IS A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION BECAUSE IT'S NOT
REALLY APPROPRIATE EVERYWHERE
THERE'S CUL DE SAC STREETS NOT
FOR EXAMPLE PROBABLY NOT
APPROPRIATE BUT IF THE IF THE
SITE FOR A CHILD CARE IS A BIG
ENOUGH LOT IF IT'S ON THE
CORNER, IF IT'S THEN THAT'S WHY
IT'S NOT JUST ALLOWED
EVERYWHERE.
IT SOUNDS TO ME THAT THE THE
CONCERNS WHICH ARE LEGITIMATE
THE CONCERNS OF MAYBE
AUTOMOBILE'S ARE NOT BECAUSE
IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE EVERYWHERE
I HAVE NOT HEARD LIKE I DON'T
WANT IT I I IT NEEDS TO BE ON
THE TRANSIT LINE OR NOT.
IT NEEDS TO BE HERE HERE I'M
NOT ACTUALLY HEARING THAT SO
I'M NOT HEARING THAT IT SHOULD
BE A SPECIAL EXCEPTION IS WHAT
I'M HEARING IS IT NEEDS BETTER
STANDARDS OR MAYBE THE USE
NEEDS TO BE BROKEN DOWN MORE
INDIVIDUALLY SO IT'S NOT ALL
FORMS OF VEHICLE SALES WE HAVE
FOUND AN EXAMPLE WHERE THERE
WAS YOU KNOW, IT COULD BE
PERSONAL VEHICLES AND THEN
HEAVY EQUIPMENT THE SAME THING
WITH REPAIR SO THAT I MEAN IF
IT WAS THE DISCUSSION AT THE
TABLE I'M NOT WHAT I HAVEN'T
HEARD IS THAT THESE USERS NOW
THEY CAN ONLY GO ON A STREET
OF A CERTAIN SIZE.
THEY CAN'T GO HERE.
THEY CAN'T GO THERE.
THEY HAVE TO BE WITHIN THIS
PROXIMITY.
I'VE NOT HEARD THAT.
IT'S WHAT I'VE HEARD IS MORE
ABOUT THE UNINTENDED
CONSEQUENCES OR JUST THE
BROADNESS OF THE USE AND SO
THEREFORE I THINK THE ANSWER IS
TO ADD BETTER DEFINITION OR
NUANCE TO PERMANENT OUTDOOR
SALES.
I'VE HEARD MAYBE LEVELS OF AUTO
SALES OR AND RENTAL MAYBE EVEN
REPAIRED.
OH, THAT HASN'T BEEN AS MUCH
OF A DISCUSSION BUT THAT'S WHAT
I'VE HEARD THE CONCERNS ARE AND
I DON'T THINK THAT SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE IS THE TOOL TO
ADDRESS THOSE TO ADDRESS WHAT
I'VE HEARD AND THAT'S MY
OPINION.
FEEL FREE TO DISAGREE.
>> MR. CLARK, CAN I JUST ADD
ONE QUICK CAR?
I'LL GIVE BRIEF UM I THINK
SOMETHING THAT I HAVEN'T HEARD
COME UP A LOT IS THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE USE
OF THE PROPERTY AND TO THE LIKE
THE IDEA OF A TRANSIT QUARTER
OF LIKE MOVING PEOPLE
EFFICIENTLY IN GENERAL AND JUST
MAYBE ONE OF THE CORE ISSUES
OF THE AUTO CENTRIC USES IS
LIMITING FLOW OF THINGS LIKE
BUSSES AND HAVING CARS TURNING
ON AND OFF AND LIMITING IT FROM
BEING A PRIMARILY ANY LITERALLY
ANYTHING THAT DOESN'T INTERFERE
WITH LIKE A RAPID BUS TRANSIT
OR SOMETHING.
BUT YOU CAN'T REALLY HAVE A
RAPID MASS TRANSIT GOING DOWN A
STADIUM IF YOU'RE GOING TO BE
HAVING PEOPLE TESTING OUT A
BRAND NEW CAR THEY'VE NEVER
DRIVEN TRYING TO DRIVE IN AND
OUT OR YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE
EVEN LIKE YOU KNOW, THE
EXISTING REPAIR SHOPS THAT ARE
THERE TIME THAT WAS ANOTHER
SIDE.
IT WAS JUST CURIOUS WHAT
THRESHOLD LIKE PERCENTAGE
OF THE AUTO REPAIRS ARE
SEPARATE FROM KIND OF JUMPING
AROUND JUST QUESTION HOW WHAT
PERCENTAGE WOULD THEY HAVE TO
BE RENOVATING OR BUILDING TO
THEN HAVE TRIGGERED THE ONE I
CAN'T REMEMBER THAT OFFHAND
.
THE IT'S ADDRESSED IN THE
NONCONFORMING U.S. AND I'M
SORRY I THINK IT'S FIFTY
PERCENT FOR A NON RESIDENTIAL
USE AND SEVENTY PERCENT OF THE
THE EXPANSION WHEN IT'S
CONSIDERED A NEW BUILD WOULD BE
THE FIFTY PERCENT OF THE VALUE
.
SO PRETTY SUBSTANTIAL
RENOVATION FOR ANY REPAIR SHOP
OR WHATNOT THAT'S THERE.
YEAH I GUESS I WOULD JUST BE MY
CONCERN WOULD BE LOOKING AT THE
ONLY OTHER FACTOR WOULD BE JUST
HOW IT INTERACTS WITH THE IDEA
OF TRANSIT AND EFFICIENTLY
MOVING PEOPLE IN THE FUTURE
OF LIKE A RAPID BUS AND HAVING
MINIMIZING CONFLICT POINTS WITH
THAT.
YEAH I DO NOT HAVE THE NUMBERS
IN FRONT OF ME BUT I DO BELIEVE
FAIRLY CONFIDENT THAT IN TERMS
OF TRIP GENERATION AUTO SALES
ARE MUCH LOWER THAN OTHER USES
THAT ARE PERMITTED IN THE DC
ONE DISTRICT FOR EXAMPLE,
RESTAURANTS WOULD HAVE A MUCH
HIGHER TRIPPED GENERATION THAN
AUTO DEALERSHIP INCLUDING
PROBABLY PASTEURIZE
WHICH JUST
DOES A QUESTION ABOUT THE
COMPARISON BETWEEN THE TWO.
YOU SEE ONE THE ONE AS IT
RELATES TO AUTO USE.
SO IN THE DAY THE DAY ONE DAY
TWO IT IS BY SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USE.
>> I'M DOUBLE CHECKING THAT
RIGHT NOW AND THEN I WONDER WHY
IF IT WAS IN THE COUNCIL WHERE
I WAS IT DIDN'T COME ACROSS AS
A SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE WAS
THAT IS THAT DECISION TO IGNORE
THAT AND WHEN I SAY NO I DON'T
MEAN THAT MALICIOUSLY SO DON'T
READ ANYTHING INTO THAT MR.
ESPECIALLY FOR THE VEHICLE
SALES AND RENTAL.
IT IS A SPECIAL EXCEPTION IN
THE D ONE AND TWO DISTRICTS.
IT IS A PERMITTED USE IN C TO B
AND C THREE RIGHT FOR REPAIR
SAME SPECIAL EXCEPTION USED IN
THE D WANT TO DO TWO AND A
PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USE IN THE
C TO BE IN C THREE.
I THINK THAT STAFF WERE FOR THE
SORT OF THE REASONS I
ARTICULATED PREVIOUSLY I DIDN'T
THINK WE THOUGHT THAT IT SHOULD
BE A SPECIAL EXCEPTION BECAUSE
OF OUR FORM BASED CONTROLS.
WE THOUGHT IT COULD APPROACH
THE CONTACT IT WOULD FIT IN
CONTEXT EVERYWHERE THAT ONE WAS
ZONED AND IF THE AND IT IS VERY
VALID IF A COMMISSION DISAGREES
WITH A CAR MULTISTORY ELEVATOR
WORK THAT IS TO SAY IT WOULD
HAVE A SHORT SETBACK BECAUSE
THERE THOSE ELEVATORS THEY
PROBABLY WOULD HAVE TO DO A 15
FOOT FIRST STOREY.
BUT OUTSIDE OF THAT THEY COULD
GO UP BECAUSE THE FIRE WOULD
PROBABLY FIT THE FOOTPRINT SO
WE COULD GET A BUNCH OF CAR
ELEVATORS IN THE IN THE
STRUCTURE THAT WE HAVE RIGHT
NOW.
SO WE COULD BUT THAT WOULD BE
YES WE COULD AND THAT WOULD BE
I THINK I THINK IF WE CONSIDER
BUILDING EITHER WAY IT'S A
STRUCTURE.
YEAH.
AND I'M PRETTY CERTAIN THAT'S
NOT WHAT WE WANT AND WHAT WE'D
DO.
SO THAT'S FOR ME.
THAT'S WHY I'M TRYING TO FIGURE
OUT WHY WE DIDN'T BRING THE
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE OVER
BECAUSE IT GIVES THE MOST
AMOUNT OF FLEXIBILITY AS THE
DISTRICT TRANSFORMS INTO WHAT
WE WANT IT TO BECOME AND IF I
UNDERSTOOD THE COUNCIL MEMBERS
CONCERN WAS BY EXCLUDING IT
BEARLY WE HARM THE TRANSITION?
I DIDN'T HEAR THE CONCERN FROM
COUNCIL SAY THAT THIS IS
SOMETHING WE WANT TO PERMIT IN
PERPETUITY.
IT IS SOMETHING THAT WE WANT IT
TO CREATE TO CREATE AN EASIER
TRANSITION AND IT WOULD SEEM
THAT THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE
WOULD ALLOW US TO ENACT THAT.
AND THEN THERE WAS SOMETHING
ELSE YOU SAID EARLIER AROUND.
>> UM, IT'S BEEN MY IT'S BEEN
MY UNDERSTANDING THAT WE DO
HAVE RULES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE
BUT WE DON'T ALWAYS ENFORCE
THOSE RULES.
UH, I DON'T I DON'T THINK NO, I
DON'T THINK THAT'S WHY THAT IS
NOT WHAT I WAS TRYING TO
ARTICULATE SHORT WE HAVE TO PUT
IT INTO YOUR IN YOUR COMMENT.
I THINK IT WAS IN RESPONSE TO
SOMETHING THAT COMMISSIONER SO
THEY SAID OH IT WOULD BE MY
FAULT WE WOULD BE ABLE TO
CORRECT THAT THROUGH
ENFORCEMENT.
AND SO I'M TRYING TO UNDERSTAND
HOW BECAUSE WE HAVE A LOT
OF NONCONFORMING THINGS WITHIN
PLANNING BUT WE'RE NOT LIKE A
LOT OF THE CONVERSATION THAT
I'VE BEEN TRYING TO HAVE AROUND
OUR FORESE IS NONCOM BUT WE'RE
NOT GOING AND SAYING THIS IS
NOT CONFORMING AND IT NEEDS TO
COME UP TO CODE .
WE WAIT TILL THERE IS A CHANGE
AND THEN WE BRING IT UP TO
CODE AND SO THE ENFORCEMENT IS
A LAGGING INDICATOR IN A SENSE
IT'S LIKE A LAGGING TOOL.
IT'S NOT A PRIMARY ENFORCEMENT
.
SO I JUST WROTE THAT DOWN AS
OF LIKE I DON'T THINK THAT'S
GOING TO GET WHAT WE WANT.
BUT IT WAS IT WAS SOMETHING
THAT YOU WERE TALKING ABOUT
LIKE IF SOMEBODY TRIED TO LIKE
PENCIL AND THE THE THE PARKING
LOT AND ALL THESE THINGS TO
LIKE LIKE REALLY THREAD THE
NEEDLE, WE HAVE A TOOL TO
CORRECT THAT I THINK IS HOW IT
CAME ACROSS WHICH IS THROUGH
ENFORCEMENT AND I DON'T KNOW IF
THAT MEANT YOU WOULD PREVENT
THAT THROUGH THE BUILDING
OR
THROUGH THE ENFORCEMENT OF LIKE
THE INSPECTION THE SITE PLANNED
IF SOMEBODY TRIED TO DO SOME
TRICKERY OR SOME SOME
NONCONFORMING THING.
SO ANYWAY, IT WAS JUST
SOMETHING THAT I KNOW THAT AND
I I JUST DON'T SEE USING THOSE
ENFORCEMENT TOOLS SO YOU CAN
CLARIFY YOU KNOW, IF WE HAD A
STENOGRAPHER WE COULD READ BACK
THE TRANSCRIPT BUT I'LL HAVE TO
DO THAT AFTER THE MEETING.
WE'VE GOT TO OFFER UP THE FACTS
MAYBE SOME ADVISORS AND SPECIAL
EXCEPTION LIKE THERE WAS KIND
OF A CONSENSUS OF THE INTENT
BEHIND IT LIKE NEAR HIGHWAY
INTERCHANGES ON OFF THAT YOU'RE
NOT KIND OF COMING INTO OUR
COMMUNITY AND DISRUPTING THE
FLOW OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE ARE OPEN TO CONSIDERING IT
ONCE WE GET INTO OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD CORRIDORS THAT'S
WHERE WE DREW THAT LINE AND
KIND OF SET IT ON THE SECOND
BANK THEN PLYMOUTH ROAD AND
IT'S ALMOST LIKE I WANT TO SAY
WITH SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES
HERE IT'S A SPECIAL EXCEPTION
WHEN IT'S MODIFICATIONS TO AN
EXISTING BUILDING.
>> WE'RE NOT INTERESTED IN
SPECIAL EXCEPTION TO A LOT
OF THIS AND IN NEW CONSTRUCTION
IS IT IS WHAT I'M HEARING AS
PART OF THE DISCUSSION AND I
THINK THAT'S WHERE I HEAR BOTH.
I LIKE UH STEPTO YELLING ABOUT
SOMETHING LIKE SEALS CAN MOVE
AND IS SEALS IN A BUILDING
BECAUSE IT MEANT LIKE DOES THAT
MATTER?
BUT I GUESS WHAT I DISAGREE
WITH IS WHEN YOU'RE CHANGING
WINDSHIELD WIPERS THAT'S NOT A
PRIMARY USE IS VEHICLE
MAINTENANCE BECAUSE OVER TIME A
PRIMARY USE TABLE SELLING CARS
ONLINE IS NOT A PRIMARY USE
OF A SPACE AND THAT'S KIND
OF DISTILL DOWN TO LIKE WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT PRIMARY USE
OF THESE PROJECTS, NOT ACCESSOR
USES OR KIND OF FRINGE USES.
AND SO FOR IF WE'RE SELLING
CARS ONLINE OR COORDINATING
RENT OR PICKUPS, THAT'S THAT'S
A DESK JOB LIKE AN OFFICE USE.
IT'S AN OFFICE.
SO I DON'T SEE THAT IF THERE'S
ANYTHING IN THE PLAN BUT IT'S
ABOUT MYSELF AND SOME OF THE
USE SPACE AND THE IMPACT OF THE
SPACE.
UM, THAT'S WHAT I THINK WE HAVE
THE USES DELINEATED DIFFERENTLY
SO THAT WE CAN MEASURE
INTENSITY DIFFERENTLY AND WHEN
WE START TALKING ABOUT THE
FUTURE OF SOME OF THESE USES
THAT INTENSIVE DWINDLES TO
START BECOMING OFFICE OR
SOMETHING SIMILAR THAT WE
CURRENTLY ALLOW IT TO BE
PERMITTED.
AND I THINK THAT'S MAYBE
ANOTHER KIND OF PEACE I'M
GRAPPLING WITH IF IT'S LAW
INTENDED TO USE IT MIGHT FALL
UNDER DIFFERENT CATEGORY WHEN
WE THINK ABOUT PRIMARY USE
TABLE UM BECAUSE I THINK YOU
CAN CHANGE THE BATTERY AND
THAT'S THE PRIMARY USE
OF AUTOZONE THAT JUST HAPPENS
TO BE SOME SUBSIDIARY THING
THAT YOU DO JUST GOOD SERVICE.
>> SO I DON'T FEEL LIKE THIS
SHOULD BE IT FEELS EASY.
IT FEELS VERY HARD AT THE SAME
TIME.
SO REALLY LIKE I FEEL LIKE I'M
REALLY PULLING ALL THE READS
THIS ONE UM AND I REALLY THREW
IN THAT OUTDOORSY UM BUT I LIKE
I UNDERSTAND NOT THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USED BUT I ACTUALLY
THINK IT'S PROBABLY THE
CLEAREST WAY TO SEND A MESSAGE
ABOUT HOW WE NEED TO HAVE EARLY
AND FRANK DISCUSSIONS WITH
PROJECTS ABOUT THIS THAT
WITHOUT OPENING UP TOO MUCH
POTENTIAL FOR NEW LIKE NEW
PROJECTS IN DC ONE.
AND SO I THINK IT'S MAYBE THE
MESSAGE I WOULD SAY AND I'M
GOING TO MAKE AN AMENDMENT SO
WE CAN KIND OF MOVE OUR
DISCUSSION SOMEWHERE AND THAT'S
WHAT I WOULD SAY WITH AN
AMENDMENT TO INCLUDE THESE TWO
USES A SPECIAL EXCEPTION IS
THAT THE INTENT IS TO REQUEST
THAT STAFF MAYBE ENCOURAGE ANY
PETITIONER THAT BRINGS A
PROJECT TO A WORKING SESSION TO
REPRESENT MIDDLE OF AN EARLY
CONVERSATION TO SEE WHAT IS IT
LIKE IF IT'S A BIG ADDITION OR
SOMETHING?
>> UM, BUT I THINK THAT THAT'S
THE INTENT.
I THINK WE'RE TRYING CONVEY AND
I DON'T KNOW THE CLEAR OTHER
CLEAREST WAY TO DO IT.
I THINK ONE WAY YEAH.
BE SO BOLDLY BUT IN WOULD BE TO
MAKE A RIGHT BECAUSE THERE'S
FIVE MEMBERS TONIGHT MAYBE MAKE
A RECOMMENDATION MAYBE BREAK UP
THE MOTION AND MAKE AN
AMENDMENT ON THE PARTS THAT YOU
FEEL CONFIDENT, MOVE FORWARD
AND TO POSTPONE THE AND
POSTPONE OTHER ELEMENTS THAT
MAYBE NEED MORE CONSIDERATION
OR VISION OR MAYBE NEED TO BE
THEN INCLUDED WITH MORE
AMENDMENTS TO TO TO BE I GET
THE SENSE WE'D LIKE TO LOOK A
LITTLE MORE HOLISTICALLY AND
THERE'S PROBABLY A COUPLE
OF OPTIONS BUT TO LOOK AT SOME
THINGS MORE HOLISTICALLY, MAYBE
THIS ENTIRE PACKAGE
OF AMENDMENTS IS NOT RIPE FOR
FORWARDING TO CITY COUNCIL
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
THERE WAS A PART TO THE PART TO
SOMETHING ELSE YOU'RE BRINGING
BACK TO US FOR ONE AND I'M
FORGETTING THAT IS THERE WAS
PART TWO RELATED TO THE NATURAL
RIGHTS OF WAY.
>> THANK YOU.
UNTIL THAT EVEN COMES BACK AND
WE MOVE THAT ON THE CITY
COUNCIL, THEY'RE NOT GOING TO
LET US WITH ANY OTHER COURT
CASES TO SEE ONE.
RIGHT.
SO NO, I MEAN WHEN YOU SAY THAT
OUT LOUD, IT'S OK THEN BUT BUT
BUT THE BUT EVEN THE AMENDMENT
THAT BROUGHT THIS TO THE TABLE
SAID THESE CHANGES SHOULD NOT
DELAY THE ADOPTION OF TCE.
SO I JUST I JUST WANTED TO GIVE
THAT COUNTERPOINT THANK YOU
ABOUT DIASPORAN BECAUSE THERE
WAS A SEPARATE AMENDMENT TO
UPBRAIDS HIS ORIGINAL MOTION
THAT STRUCK SOMETHING THAT WAS
LIKE AND WE RECOGNIZE THAT THIS
WILL SLOW DOWN OR DELAY THE
IMPLEMENTATION OF THIS ONE AND
IT WAS STRUCK FROM THE
AMENDMENT BECAUSE IT IS MY
UNDERSTANDING OF WATCHING
COUNCIL THAT THEY WANT THE ONES
TO MOVE THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
SOMEBODY SAID SOMETHING HERE
TONIGHT THAT MADE ME THINK OH,
I WOULD COMMISSIONER WHICH IS
RIGHT THAT I I HAD PROPOSED.
I JUST WANT TO BE FRANK I
PROPOSE THAT LANGUAGE BECAUSE
MODIFYING THIS DISTRICT HAS
CONSEQUENCES AND YES, THAT WAS
STRUCK STRUCK.
BUT I WOULD REITERATE MY
POSITION THE REASON A FACTOR IN
THAT RESOLUTION BEING PRESENTED
BACKED UP BY THE COMMISSION WAS
THERE WAS AMBIVALENCE FROM MY
PERSPECTIVE AT A CITY COUNCIL
TABLE OF REZONING A CORRIDOR TO
TAKE ONE BECAUSE THERE WAS
CONCERNS OUTSTANDING ON THOSE
MATTERS.
THOSE WERE SPECIFIC ISSUES THAT
WERE RAISED AND I I'LL JUST
REITERATE MY PREMISE THAT UNTIL
THOSE ARE RESOLVED I THINK
BRINGING ANY ADDITIONAL AREAS
THOSE QUESTIONS ARE GOING TO
REMAIN IN THE MINDS OF CITY
COUNCIL.
I'M PROJECTING THAT I'M BASING
IT ON THE EXPERIENCE OF THE
PAST REZONING.
BUT THAT'S WHY I THINK IT'S
IMPORTANT THAT WE ADVANCE THOSE
CHANGES PRIOR TO PURSUING
ADDITIONAL GEOGRAPHY'S WHAT WAS
THE TIMELINE FOR THE UM MY
VOICE IS OPEN TO THAT AFTER THE
AUTOMOBILE USAGE WAS RESOLVED I
DON'T WANT TO BE IN THE SAME
TIME I DO SORT OF TO MISSILEERS
SUGGESTION LIKE I THINK THAT
MAYBE MAKES SENSE OR I MEAN IF
IT WAS A SPECIAL EXCEPTION YOU
YOU SHOULD HAVE SAID SOMETHING
ABOUT NOT NEW BUILDINGS JUST
ESPECIALLY SOMETHING NEW FOR
THIS IS THAT THIS IS AN
EXISTING BUILDINGS OR WELL I
THINK IT'S SIMILAR TO DRIVE.
WE'VE KIND OF TAKEN THE
POSITION SPECIAL EXCEPTION IS
ABOUT A CERTAIN CONTEXT.
AND SO TO THE LAST POINT WE
TALKED ABOUT WAS CONTEXT AND SO
DRIVE THROUGH IS IT WAS LIKE
IT'S CLOSE TO AN INTERCHANGE.
YOU'RE QUICK ON QUICK YOU'RE
NOT COMING INTO OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD THAT HAS CONTEXT
AMBITIONS.
RIGHT.
AT LEAST IT WAS CLEARLY WE DREW
A LINE THERE'S NOT THAT TERMS
OF SPECIAL EXCEPTION ABOUT THE
EXPECTATION.
IS THERE A WAY TO CLEARLY
COMMUNICATE THIS THAT IN A
SIMILAR FASHION WITH SPECIAL
EXCEPTION HERE AND I THINK
THAT'S WHERE IT'S IT'S
DIFFERENT BECAUSE IT'S NOT
ABOUT CON TEXT RELATIVE TO YOU
KNOW, THE THE PLANNING OPINION
OF HOW WE USE OUR ORDINANCE
POLICY TO DO IT VERSUS HOW
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT HOW WE WANT
TO TRY TO REGULATE THAT LAND
USE SO DIFFERENT THAT THE SAME
IN TERMS OF TRYING TO DRAW A
LOT LIKE SPLITTING HAIRS WHEN
IT MIGHT BE APPROPRIATE OR NOT.
SO AT LEAST WE CAN COMMUNICATE
THAT EARLIER SO THAT WE DON'T
HAVE PEOPLE COMING ALL THE WAY
TO SAY PLAN B LIKE WE TOLD YOU
IT'S LIKE THIS IS NOT PART YOU
KNOW, QUALIFYING AS A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION.
>> USE CAN CAN I JUST KNOW YES.
GO AHEAD.
JUST I KNOW BUT I WANT TO USE
I'M SUPPOSED TO GIVE EVERYBODY
THE PRACTICING I THINK THERE'S
GOING TO BE PEOPLE AT THIS
TABLE THIS IS CITY COUNCIL
RELATIVE TO DC ONE ON THE OTHER
SIDE AMBIVALENCES MAYBE THE
CITY COUNCIL UNTIL THINGS ARE
CLEARED UP AND I THINK INDIA
WANTS TO MAKE CHANGES UNTIL WE
SEE MORE MOVEMENT.
>> SO THAT'S WHAT I ALSO SEE
KIND OF A CONFLICT OF SHOULD WE
DO SHOULD WE WAIT SHOULD WE
WAIT?
WE DO BETWEEN THESE TWO TABLES
AND I'M TRYING TO RECONCILE I
APPRECIATE THE PROFESSIONAL
OPINION AND CLOSE LOOPHOLES
BECAUSE WE WANT TO HAVE
PROJECTS COME BEFORE US THAT A
POSITIVE AND AMBITIOUS
PRECEDENT FOR
THE PROJECTS.
WE'RE TRYING TO SEE IF WE SEE
THE DEALERSHIP WITH OFFICES ON
THE SECOND FLOOR WITH A PARKING
LOT, A PARKING STRUCTURE AND
OUTDOOR SALES USE AS A FIRST
PROJECT.
CAN YOU SEE ONE LIKE I FEEL
LIKE WE WOULD BE TAKING SO MANY
MORE STEPS BACK IN TERMS
OF WHERE THIS BUT I THINK THERE
ARE A LOT OF STRONG ELEMENTS
OF THIS POLICY.
BUT INSTEAD OF KEEPING IT TIED
TO THINGS WE KNOW WE CAN GET
OUT OF IT AS IT STANDS RIGHT
NOW.
>> I WAS GOING TO SAY MAYBE
DEPENDS ON WHERE IT REPLACES
BUT MAYBE IT DOESN'T ACTUALLY
DEPEND ON VERBALIZES AND I I
THINK YOU'RE RIGHT ABOUT THE
AMBIVALENCE.
I WANT TO KEEP REZONING AND
JUST SORT OF FIXED PLYMOUTH
COULD IN WASHINGTON I COULD
BRING UP ISSUES AGAIN THAT
NOBODY HAD THOUGHT OF THIS WHEN
I CAN REMEMBER WHERE ARE THEY
ON OUR PLAN RIGHT NOW THEY SORT
OF POSTPONED BECAUSE WE'RE
DEALING WITH THIS OR NEXT YEAR
THIS YEAR.
SO GENERALLY OUR TIME FRAME
WITH YOU WANT US TO RESOLVE THE
ONE DIRECTION THAT COUNCIL HAS
PROVIDED THEN WE WERE
CONTEMPLATING SIMULTANEOUS
REZONING OF BOTH WASHINGTON AND
PLYMOUTH.
SO BASED ON TIMING I MEAN YOU
ARE IN THE MIDST OF THIS AS WE
ARE AT THIS TABLE TRYING TO
PREDICT HOW LONG THE FIRST PART
OF THAT WILL TAKE.
I WANT TO BE CLEAR WE'VE BEEN
HAVING A LOT OF CONVERSATION ON
STAFF WITH OTHER PROPERTY
OWNERS AND POTENTIAL DEVELOPERS
REGARDING THE DC ONE AND I WANT
TO BE CLEAR WE HAVE TEN OTHER
SUGGEST THINGS THAT HAVE BEEN
PROFFERED AND I CAN'T SIT HERE
AND TELL YOU WHICH AMONG THOSE
I THINK ARE GOOD WHICH OF THOSE
I THINK WE SHOULD PURSUE WHICH
ARE THOSE THAT DON'T RISE TO
PROMINENCE FOR ME WE'RE TRYING
HARD TO GET THIS DISTRICT IN A
FORM THAT WORKS.
I DO WANT TO BE CLEAR AND
HONEST.
WE HAVE YET TO HAVE A ONE
PROPOSAL AND ANY DISTRICT I
DON'T WANT TO SAY THAT THAT IS
BECAUSE THE DISTRICT IS BAD.
UM, I THINK THE DISTRICT IS
DOWN.
WE YOU WILL RECALL WHEN WE
STARTED THIS CONVERSATION WE
PRESENTED A LOT OF DIFFERENT
SCENARIOS.
WE TALKED ABOUT VARYING
APPROACHES, DIFFERENT DISTRICTS
.
WE TALKED ABOUT TRYING TO BUILD
UPON SOME OF THE KNOWN
QUANTITIES AND REGULATORY
FRAMEWORKS OF OUR EXISTING
DISTRICTS.
WE VERY INTENTIONALLY TRIED TO
USE BUILDING BLOCKS FROM SOME
OF THE THINGS THAT WERE WITHIN
OUR ORDINANCE.
SO I THINK IT'S SOUND BUT I I
THINK IT'S FAIR TO ALSO SIT
HERE WITH THE EXPERIENCE THAT
YOU AS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
HAVE NOT YET SEEN IT TAKE ONE
PROPOSAL AND SO THERE COULD BE
A LOT OF FACTORS TO THAT.
I FRANKLY THINK THAT ECONOMIC
FACTORS ARE A BIG PART OF THAT
BUILDING RIGHT NOW IS VERY
DIFFICULT.
BUT I WILL SAY THERE ARE OTHER
PROPOSALS HAPPENING.
>> YOU ARE SEEING OTHER
PROPOSALS.
SO UM I I JUST WANT TO I PUT
THAT OUT THERE TO SAY I
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT TENSION
OF TRYING TO REZONE MORE AREAS
TO TAKE ONE AND GETTING AREAS
TO SEE ONE ZONING MORE
APPROPRIATE.
I ADVISE MY OPINION IS THAT WE
ARE HAVING THIS CONVERSATION
BECAUSE THERE WAS UNEASE AT THE
COUNCIL TABLE.
I I CAN'T SPEAK FOR THE COUNCIL
AT THAT MOMENT.
I'M TELLING YOU HOW I
INTERPRETED THAT AND I'M
PROJECTING HOW THAT UNEASE
MIGHT CARRY FORWARD TO THE NEXT
DISTRICT.
THERE MIGHT BE NEW ISSUES AS
WELL.
SO I DON'T EVEN WANT TO SUGGEST
THAT RESOLVING THESE TO BE A
PANACEA THAT THOSE SIMILAR
QUESTIONS WON'T BE RAISED BUT I
THINK IT'S SOUND TO TRY TO BE
RESPONSIVE TO WHAT THE COUNCIL
ASKED TO DO BEFORE WE LAY THAT
NEXT CONFERENCE ON THERE, LET
ME ASK ONE MORE THING AND STOP
TALKING.
>> IF WE IF WE SAID WE WANT
THESE USES PERMITTED TO BE THE
SPECIAL EXCEPTION IS CAN WE PUT
CONDITIONS ON SPECIAL
EXCEPTIONS LIKE CAN WE SAY LIKE
IF YOU DO A PARKING GARAGE IT
HAS TO HAVE FLAT OR PLATES OR
YES.
THAT SUGGESTS TO ME THAT WE
WERE TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT TAX
THAT ACHIEVES THANKS.
>> COMMISSIONER, JUST TO
CLARIFY THIS CAME IN AT THE
TRANSITION POINT OF THE OLD
COUNCIL TO THE NEW COUNCIL AND
IT WAS CHAMPIONED BY IF I
REMEMBER CORRECTLY A SINGLE
COUNCIL MEMBER.
SO WE TALK ABOUT AN EASE.
I JUST WANT TO CONTEXTUALIZE IT
THAT IT WAS NOT A MAJORITY
OF THE COUNCIL SO IT WASN'T A
MANDATE AND TERMS OF IT I HEAR
YOU SIT IN A VERY UNIQUE
POSITION.
IT'S A DIFFERENT POSITION THAN
I SIT IN AND I RESPECT THAT
POSITION AND I RESPECT THAT YOU
SEE THE PROPOSALS AND YOU HEAR
FROM THE DEVELOPERS AND YOU ARE
TALKING TO THE POLICY MAKERS
AND YOU'RE TRYING TO CREATE A
VISION FOR WHAT'S GOING TO WORK
AND WHAT'S GOING TO MOVE
THROUGH.
BUT WE DO HAVE A NEW COUNCIL WE
THIS TABLE I THINK TO BE KIND
TO USE THE KIND WORDS THAT
COMMISSIONER SAUV SORT
OF INTIMATED THERE'S SOME
AMBIVALENCE I WOULD LOOK GET
THAT AND SO I JUST I I SEE THIS
I AM STRUGGLING WITH THIS
BECAUSE IT'S SLOWING DOWN WHAT
WE NEED TO DO AND WE'RE SEEING
PETITIONS THAT ARE GETTING IN
IN THIS TRANSITION THAT AREN'T
IN OUR 50 YEAR PLAN.
WE KNOW IN OUR 50 YEAR PLAN WE
DO NOT WANT TO DEDICATE THIS
MUCH LAND TO THESE KINDS
OF USELESS.
AND SO IF THAT IS WHAT IS KNOWN
AND THAT IS THE TRAJECTORY OR
TO USE A TERM THAT I USE IN MY
PROFESSION TELL US IT IS OUR
FUTURE, IT IS TIME FOR US TO
ACTIVATE OUR FUTURE AT THE
TABLE AND THAT MEANS THAT WE DO
IT BY SPECIAL USE, EXCEPTIONAL
OR WE JUST BAN IT ALL TOGETHER
AND SEND IT BACK TO COUNCIL AND
SAY WE LOOKED AT ALL OF THIS.
HERE IS WHERE WE'RE GOING.
WE DO NOT AGREE I I THAT'S
WHERE I WOULD SET TO TO GIVE
YOU FEEDBACK TO DELIVER BECAUSE
I DIDN'T SAY MUCH AT THE
BEGINNING SO JUST SOME MORE
PIECE AND LET ME JUST SAY I DID
NOT SAY THOSE TABLES LOOK
GREAT.
THANK YOU FOR THOSE CHANGES.
I WOULD LOVE TO HAVE SEEN
SEPARATE SO THAT WE COULD JUST
JUST HEAP PRAISE ON THE CHANGES
THAT YOU ARE MAKING AND THANKS
FOR YOUR BOTH YOUR EXPERTIZE,
YOUR KNOWLEDGE AND YOUR
DILIGENCE IN THIS WORK.
WE ARE THE BENEFICIARIES
OF YOUR GOOD STEWARDSHIP.
HMM.
OK OK I'M GOING TO DO IT I'M
GOING TO TO SPEND IT AND I'M
GOING TO MAKE A MOTION TO AMEND
TO MAKE A SPECIAL EXCEPTION FOR
THE AUTO REPAIR AND AUTO SALES
AND MY REASONING FOR THIS IS DO
YOU WANT TO MOVE THIS FORWARD
IT'S GOING TO TECHNICALLY FAIL
AND WE CAN CONTINUE DISCUSSION
WHATEVER COUNCIL WANTS TO DO
NEXT WITH IT.
BUT ALSO IF THE INTENT IS THAT
SOME OF THESE USES ARE MOVING
FORWARD IN A WAY THAT ARE
REDUCED IN AN INTENSITY TO WHAT
WE'RE SEEING NOW LIKE WE'RE
SELLING MORE THINGS ONLINE AND
WE'RE HAVING INVENTORY OFF
SITE, WE MIGHT DELIVER IT AND
THINGS LIKE THAT THEN IT MIGHT
FALL UNDER A DIFFERENT USE
CATEGORY AS THE PRIMARY AND THE
SPECIAL EXCEPTION SHOULD BE
EVALUATED IN TERMS OF WHAT
LEVEL OF USE IS IT ACTUALLY
DOING AND THE INTENSITY OF A
SITE VERSUS THESE SO REALLY THE
QUESTION IS NOT WHERE BUT I
THINK WHEN IT APPLIES THAT ANY
THAT REQUEST A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION IT'S TO THE
DISCRETION OF IS IS CUTTING THE
THRESHOLD FROM LIKE OFFICE
SALES TO AUTO SALES RELATIVE TO
A PRIMARY USE WHEN WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT HOW SALES ARE
TRANSITIONING IN THIS MODERN
ERA.
SO I THINK THAT'S ALSO KIND
OF HEARING THAT THERE IS SOME
GRAY AREA IN THE TYPE OF SALES
AND IF AUTO SALES LOOKS THE
SAME AND WHEN IT DOES LOOK LIKE
THIS I HAVE CONCERNS ABOUT CAR
STORAGE AND WHAT WE'RE
PRIORITIZING THERE IN OUR FORM
AND HOW MUCH MORE PARKING
STRUCTURE WE MIGHT GET INSTEAD
OF APARTMENTS.
SO I HAVE TWO AMENDMENTS.
ONE IS A MOTION TO CHANGE THE
AUTO TRACKING EQUIPMENT REPAIR
AND THE AUTO SALES AND RENTAL
TO A SPECIAL EXCEPTION WAS ON
THE TABLE.
>> MY SECOND MOTION AND I CAN
TAKE THEM ONE AT A TIME BUT OK,
YEAH I YOUR FIRST OK MOVE BY
MOVE BY MIXTEC RIGHT.
>> SORRY SO I GUESS WE'LL TAKE
THAT ONE UP FOR DISCUSSION FOR
THAT MOTION SO IT IS TO CHANGE
FROM A PERMITTED USE TO A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USED FOR THE
AUTO SHOP EQUIPMENT REPAIR AND
THE AUTO SALES AND RENTAL SO
THE FIRST TWO OF THE THREE
BULLET POINTS OF THE ORIGINAL
MOTION TO BE A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION INSTEAD OF PRIMARIES.
ANY DISCUSSION NO.
KELLY, CAN WE HAVE A ROLL CALL
?
SURE.
ON THE MOTION PRESENTED,
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT?
YES.
COMMISSIONERS YES.
BETTER DISH NO COMMISSIONER.
YOU SAID IT WASN'T SO I'M JUST
NOT IN A PLACE WHERE I THINK
COMMISSIONER CLERK YES.
COMMISSIONER WISCH YES.
THAT WOULD CARRY BACK TO THE
ORIGINAL MOTION.
I'M GOING TO MAKE A NEW MOTION
THAT IS TO APPLY THE NEW
SPECIFIC STANDARDS FIVE POINT
ONE SIX POINT THREE C TO THE
AUTO MOBILE TRUCK CONSTRUCTION
AND EQUIPMENT REPAIR WHICH
CURRENTLY IS APPLIED TO C TO BE
WHICH JUST TO KIND OF READ FOR
EDIFICATION UM REQUIRES STORAGE
AND REPAIR OF AUTOMOBILES.
TRUCKS AND CONSTRUCTION
EQUIPMENT MUST BE LOCATED IN AN
ENCLOSED BUILDING.
SO I WANT TO MOTION TO APPLY
THAT YOU SPECIFIC STANDARD
.
YEAH BECAUSE IT'S CALLED OUT IN
THESE FOR JUST C TO BE RELATIVE
TO THE TABLE SO IT'S LIKE AN
IGNITION SWITCH DISCUSSION
QUESTION DOES THAT THAT SOUNDS
GOOD TO ME BUT I REMEMBER US
DISCUSSING THIS AT SOME POINT
EITHER WHEN WE WERE HAVING THE
ENDLESS MAKER DISCUSSION OR
SOME OTHER TIME ABOUT WOULD YOU
BE ABLE TO FIX YOUR BICYCLE IN
YOUR DRIVEWAY OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT?
>> IS THERE ANYTHING THAT STAFF
WOULD LIKE TO RAISE ABOUT WHY
NOT TO DO THIS OR IMPLICATIONS
THAT WE NEED TO THINK THROUGH
REALLY IS ACTUALLY WHAT I MEAN
TO SAY I WOULD NOT WANT TO
EVALUATE OR ANALYZE AT A TABLE,
OK, BUT I WOULD OFFER THAT WHEN
PREPARING THE NEXT VERSION
OF THE ORDINANCE AND WE AND WE
ALSO PREPARE A BRIEFER
TRANSMITTAL MEMORANDUM TO
COVER IF WE HAVE THEN FLAGGED
SOMETHING WE WOULD ARTICULATE
THAT TO COUNCIL AND EXPANDING
OUR SAYING THAT A DIFFERENT WAY
WHEN WE'RE THEN WORKING TO
FULFILL THE PLANNING
COMMISSION'S RECOMMENDATION TO
COUNCIL WE IMPLY A
RECOMMENDATION TO CITY COUNCIL
AS WELL AND WE COULD SAY THIS
IS WHAT THE CITY COUNCIL HAS.
THIS IS WHAT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION HAS RECOMMENDED.
WE WE DO SEE THIS CONCERN
THOUGH AND WE MAY THEN SUGGEST
SUGGEST SOMETHING ALONG THOSE
LINES.
BUT THAT WOULD BE IN THE WORST
CASE SCENARIO.
BUT I'LL GO BACK TO MY ORIGINAL
POINT.
I'M JUST NOT SURE AT THIS TIME
LIKE YOU KNOW.
YES.
I DO.
I SEE IT SEE AN UNINTENDED
CONSEQUENCE WITH THAT.
>> I DON'T I DON'T SEE IT RIGHT
NOW BUT AS PART OF OUR WORK TO
FORWARD ON TO TO FORWARD YOUR
WORK TO CITY COUNCIL IF I DO
THEN SEE A CONCERN I WOULD
ARTICULATE THAT AS WELL AND
MAKE SOME SORT
OF RECOMMENDATION WHETHER IT BE
I HAVE AN ALTERNATIVE THAT
FIXES OR WHETHER IT SHOULD BE
POSTPONED IN RETURN FOR MORE
WORK DEPENDING ON WHAT I MAY OR
MAY NOT SEE.
OK, I MEAN I WILL SAY THAT AS
THE ATTENTIVE TRAVELER THAT I
AM WHEN I'M IN URBAN PLACES
LIKE PARIS IT IS ALL INSIDE AND
YOU PEER IN THE WINDOWS AND YOU
LIKE OH MY GOD THAT'S AN AUTO
REPAIR IN THERE.
AND SO I CAN SEE THAT THAT
MAKES A LOT OF SENSE AND IS A
CLEAN AMENDMENT I THINK.
>> COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
WHICH CAN YOU SAY IT AGAIN
FRYEBURG IT'S ONE SIX FIVE
POINT ONE SIX POINT THREE C OK
THREE AND I WAS LIKE I JUST
WANT TO CLARIFY YEAH.
SEE ONE HERE AND SEE TO BE
SURGERY REPAIR OF AUTOMOBILES,
TRUCKS AND CONSTRUCTION
EQUIPMENT MUST LOCATED IN AN
ENCLOSED BUILDING WHICH I
BELIEVE THE INTENT IS TO HAVE
JUNKYARDS AND YOUR INTENTION IS
THAT T SEE ONE TO THAT LIST.
>> CORRECT.
SO IT'S IN I WOULD SAY C
AUTOMOBILE ONE TAXI ONE AND C
TO BE DISTRICT BECAUSE RIGHT
NOW A ROW TO THAT TABLE AT
FRAGS BUT WHEN YOU GO TO THIS
IT'S ONLY CALLS OUT SEE TO BE
AS APPLICABLE USE SCENARIO EVEN
THOUGH THERE'S MORE THAN ONE
DISTRICT PERMIT TO HAVE THIS IN
IT.
SO THAT'S HOW I READ THE UDC.
YEAH I I'M FOLLOWING THE ANY
OTHER DISCUSSION
.
>> OK READY FOR VOTE AND THE
MOTION IS PRESENTED.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES COMMISSIONER SOLVIT YES.
ROUNDISH YES.
COMMISSIONER CLARK YES.
COMMISSIONER.
RIGHT YES.
THAT CARRIES OK BACK TO THE
ORIGINAL MOTION STEPH ARE WE
CLEAR CAN WE HELP.
UM SO THE TWO MODIFICATIONS ARE
SHIFTING AUTOMOBILE SALES AND
REPAIR THE TWO USES FROM
PERMITTED USES.
THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES AND
MODIFYING FIVE POINT SIXTEEN
POINT THREE TO LIST BOTH C TO
BE A.S. ONE CORRECT.
>> AND UH I THINK, UH, LEXUS
HELPED ME I THINK FIVE SIXTEEN
THREE IS PROBABLY ALREADY
LISTED IN THEM.
I USE TABLE FOUR TO REPAIR.
YEP.
AND SAY P I WANT TO JUST ASK
ABOUT ONE MORE THING IF IT'S
POSSIBLE OR IF IT'S TOO STUPID
AND TOO NITTY GRITTY THAT WE
CAN'T DO IT BUT WOULD THERE BE
I CAN SEE WHY WE WOULD NOT WANT
TO PROHIBIT WHAT IS IT CALLED
NOW PERMANENT OUTDOOR SALES
FROM TK ONE BECAUSE THAT CAN BE
LIKE A FLEA MARKET.
YOU KNOW, LIKE PEOPLE LIKE
THOSE THAT'S WHAT WE WANT THAT
CAN BE PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY BUT
I CANNOT ENVISION ANY MOMENT
OF MY LIFE IN WHICH I WOULD
WANT A CAR DEALERSHIP TO HAVE A
PERMANENT OUTDOOR SALES BECAUSE
IT'S MORE PARKING LOT.
WE ARE NOT INTERESTED IN
PARKING LOTS.
SO COULD WE PROHIBIT THAT FROM,
UH, THINGS THAT WE SELL RENT IN
REPAIR AUTOMOBILES AND TRUCKS
AND MACHINERY?
I WOULD LIKE TO DO THAT.
>> SO OUTDOOR SALES OF OTHER
THINGS IS OK BUT OUTDOOR SALES
OF VEHICLES, MOTORCYCLES,
ELECTRIC VEHICLES, CARS IS NOT
OK.
CAN I JUST GO AHEAD.
>> I THINK IT'S IF IF I
UNDERSTAND THERE'S A
DISTINCTION BETWEEN OUTDOOR
SALES AREA AND THE VEHICULAR
USE AREA YOU COULD STILL SELL
CARS VEHICULAR USE AREA YOU'RE
USING PARKING SPACES.
>> YEAH BUT YOU COULDN'T DO
THAT AND DO IT IN THE OUTDOOR
SALES AREA IF YOU HAVE A
PARKING AREA AND AN OUTDOOR
SALES AREA WE'RE JUST SAYING
THAT WE CARE ABOUT WHAT'S IN
THAT OUTDOOR SALES AREA AND
VEHICLES WE PREFER NOT BUT
OTHER OUTDOOR SALES ITEMS TREES
,LANDSCAPING MATERIALS ARE OK
BUT CAR VEHICLES NOT NO
PERMANENT OUTDOOR STUFF LUMBER
YARD I KNOW.
>> YEAH, OK.
THIS IS WHY I ASKED IF IT
DOESN'T MAKE SENSE TO DO THAT.
>> WELL I IT'S IT'S A QUESTION
LIKE I UNDERSTAND I THINK THAT
OUR PERCEPTION IS THAT OUTDOOR
SALES OF VEHICLES IS GOING TO
BE MORE ADVERSE TO THE GOALS
OF THE QUARTER MAYBE THAN OTHER
OUTDOOR SALES.
I'M NOT ABSOLUTE ABOUT THAT.
IT'S STILL OPEN SPACE.
IT'S STILL GOING TO HAVE OFTEN
NOT A FEELING OF PROTECTION
MAYBE TO THE SIDEWALK.
IT IS A QUESTION PEOPLE CHOOSE
CHRISTMAS TREES.
THEY WALK AROUND LOTS THAT ARE
FILLED WITH CHRISTMAS TREES AND
IT SMELLS GOOD AND IT'S FESTIVE
AND THEY HANG LIGHTS A LOT
FILLED WITH CARS.
LOOKS A LOT LIKE A PARKING LOT
WHETHER THEY'RE PARKED OR
WHETHER THEY'RE IN INVENTORY
AND PEOPLE WALK AROUND AND LOOK
AT THEM, THEY DO WHAT THEY CAN
DO THAT INSIDE DO OR ONLINE.
I MEAN IT'S IT'S THE I DON'T
MIND WALKING BY A CHRISTMAS
TREE LOT.
IT DOESN'T MAKE ME COMFORTABLE
WALKING BY A HUGE PARKING AND I
DON'T KNOW IF THIS IS A
DISTINCTION WITHOUT A
DIFFERENCE BUT BUT I DO KNOW
THAT WHEN YOU RAISED THE ISSUE
OF YOU KNOW WHAT CALLED WHEN
YOU STACK PARKING I GUESS IT'S
CALLED STACK WHEN YOU JUST LINE
UP ONE AFTER THE OTHER THAT'S
ON PLEASANT PEDESTRIAN
EXPERIENCE WHICH I DO NOT WANT
THERE TO BE ANY DOUBT THAT WE
CAN'T DO.
>> CLARK, CAN I ADD A
DISTINCTION I SEE THERE IS NOT
AN EARLIER VEHICLE TRIPS WAS
MENTIONED VEHICULAR TRIPS AND I
THINK THAT IT MIGHT BE LESS
ABOUT A POINT IN TIME VEHICULAR
TRIPS BUT A TRAJECTORY THAT'S
POSSIBLE.
SO SOMETHING LIKE A CHRISTMAS
SALES LOT, YOU KNOW, IN THE
FUTURE FIFTY YEARS FROM NOW YOU
COULD WALK UP AND GET YOUR
CHRISTMAS TREE OF NEW YORK WHEN
I LIVED THERE YOU WALK UP AND
GET YOUR TREE AND GET ONLY ONE
YOU CAN CARRY.
THERE WILL NEVER BE A POINT
WHERE YOU CAN WALK INTO A CAR
DEALERSHIP AND WALK OUT WITH A
CAR.
YOU JUST CAN'T DO IT.
SO THE TRAJECTORY THERE IS
THERE'S A LIMIT LIKE YOU IT
WILL NEVER BE ZERO IN EVEN IN
UTOPIA WHATEVER BECAUSE IT'S A
VEHICLE SO IT
WILL HAVE SOME
INTERACTION WITH THE CORRIDOR
MOVING PEOPLE WHICH IS THE
PRIMARY FUNCTION OF OUR IDEAS
TO HAVE AN EFFICIENT WAY
OF MOVING PEOPLE THROUGHOUT THE
CORRIDOR.
SO I GUESS THAT'S WHY I SEE THE
DISTINCTION.
>> I'M SORRY IF I GOT WILDLY
OFF TOPIC BECAUSE YEAH.
SPENT LATER MAYBE I JUST LIKE
WHEN WE LOOK AT THE RIGHT
OF WAY STAFF COULD PROVIDE
COMMENT FOR THAT.
>> I FEEL COMFORTABLE LEAVING
AS IS LIKE HAVING THAT SPECIAL
EXCEPTION BUT IT WOULD BE
INTERESTING TO HAVE A
DISCUSSION AT A FUTURE DATE
WITH THE RIGHT OF WAY.
>> THAT'S FINE AND PLUS I DO
SENSE DISCOMFORT WITH THAT SO
LET'S NOT DO IT.
>> WE DON'T HAVE TO DO
EVERYTHING.
YEAH RIGHT AT THE TABLE RIGHT
NOW.
>> OK, SO WE HAVE A WOMAN IN
MOTION.
>> ANY FURTHER DISCUSSION WE
CAN MOVE TO VOTE.
YEAH DISCUSSIONS STEP UP.
>> I'M NOT ONE.
HOW DID THEY VOTE ON THE 2ND
AMENDMENT TO APPLY THE FIVE SIX
YES.
>> THAT WAS VOTED ON YEAH YEAH
YEAH YEAH I THINK SO.
NOW YOU'RE AT YOU'RE A
COMMISSIONER.
>> THIS IS THE ONLY WAY TO TALK
OVER NO ONE.
YES RIGHT.
YEAH RIGHT RIGHT YEAH.
WAS THERE ALREADY A MOVER AND
SECONDER FOR THE IT WAS OVER
ALL MOTIONS AMENDED OR SHOULD
HAVE BEEN WHEN WE STARTED
STARTED RIGHT OKAY COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YEAH AND COMMISSIONER AND
SECONDED RIGHT YEAH.
OK NOW YEAH YEAH YES OK ON THE
MOTION AS AMENDED IN THIS
MEETING COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES COMMISSIONER SAW IT.
YES COMMISSIONER.
YES COMMISSIONER CLERK YES
COMMISSIONER WAS YES THAT
MOTION CARRIES THAT MOTION
FAILS SORRY IT DOES ALL THAT
WORK LOOKS LIKE IT CARRIES IT
IS NOT BIG OK SO UM WITH THAT
LET ME GO BACK MAKE SURE BUT I
BELIEVE WE ARE NOW BACK ON TO
PUBLIC COMMENTS.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT ANY ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LESS THAN THE
PUBLIC HEARING ANY ISSUE.
>> I'M GOING TO STRIKE THIS ON
MY TABLE, SPEAK FOR THREE
MONTHS ON ANY ISSUE WE WILL
FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING A
PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY BUSTAN
NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE AND
USE THE RAISE HAND FEATURE IF
YOU MEAN THROUGH THE WEB LINK
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TWO FOUR SEVEN WITH
MEETING ID NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX
SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR HAND
USING IN THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME
IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEBLINK
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK AND
SPEAKING.
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND
MUTE ANY TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS THAT WE MAY
HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OR PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS SEEN NO ONE IN
THE ROOM.
WE ARE GOING TO MOVE DIRECTLY
TO REMOTE CALLERS.
KELLY, DO YOU HAVE ANYONE ON
THE LINE?
WE HAVE ONE HAND RAISED AT THIS
TIME ADAM GOODMAN.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO SPEAK BY
ADAM GOODMAN.
>> FOUR HUNDRED VIRGINIA AVENUE
AGAIN.
SO I JUST WANTED TO REEMPHASIZE
SOMETHING THAT COMMISSIONER
WHITE SAID WHICH WAS THAT CITY
COUNCIL DID NOT DIRECT PLANNING
PERMISSION TO DELAY APPLYING TO
ONE TO OTHER CORRIDORS WHEN
THEY PASSED OUR TWENTY TWO
THREE NINETY.
YES, YOU MAY HAVE HEARD THAT
EXPRESSED BY CERTAIN PEOPLE IN
THE DISCUSSION BUT A MAJORITY
OF THEM VOTED TO STRIP OUT
LANGUAGE FROM THAT RESOLUTION
THAT WOULD HAVE CONTEMPLATED
SUCH A DELAY.
I BELIEVE IT IS URGENT TO MOVE
FORWARD WITH TSWANA ON ALL
OF THE PROPOSED CORRIDORS EVEN
IF THERE ARE POTENTIALLY SOME
CHANGES COMING AND I FURTHER
BELIEVE INSTRUCTION YOU HAVE
RECEIVED FROM COUNCIL SUCH AS
IT IS WOULD NOT BE INCONSISTENT
WITH SUCH AN APPROACH.
I ALSO THINK SPECIFICALLY IF IF
YOU LOOK AT THE THREAT FOR
EXAMPLE, IT DOES NOT HAVE THE
SAME RATE CONSTRAINTS AS WELL
STADIUM DOES SO THAT I I
DEFINITELY DON'T THINK THAT
PARTICULAR CONCERN SHOULD
SHOULD BE A REASON FOR A DELAY
HERE MORE BROADLY I GUESS I DO
UNDERSTAND ON THE OTHER HAND
THERE ARE TEAMS CLEANER TO
SOLVE OPEN QUESTIONS FIRST BUT
YOU'RE ALREADY SEEING THE
DOWNSIDES OF THIS THE WAY WITH
WITH JUST AS ONE EXAMPLE THIS
UMC PROJECT TALKED ABOUT AT THE
BEGINNING OF THE MEETING THAT
NOBODY SEEMS TO LIKE.
SO OK, IF YOU ALL THINK
DIFFERENTLY IF YOU THINK IT'S
BEST TO DELAY REZONING, THEN I
DON'T AGREE BUT I BELIEVE YOU
DO HAVE THAT PREROGATIVE.
BUT ABSENT EXPLICIT COUNSEL
RESOLUTION SPEAKING OF THIS,
YOU ARE THE ONES WHO NEED TO
OWN THAT DECISION.
IT IS NOT CORRECT AND IT IS NOT
PROPER TO SAY YOU ARE DOING
THIS BECAUSE OF DIRECTION YOU
HAVE RECEIVED FROM COUNCIL.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
THERE IS ONE ADDITIONAL HAND
RAISED ALIQUOT YOU HAVE
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION.
I FLEW AGAIN CALLING FROM NASED
AND OTHER WHICH WE ASKED AT AND
POINTED OUT BEFORE ME WE'RE
STARTING TO DEAL WITH THE
ISSUES RELATED TO THE CITY SLOW
SLOW PACE OF ROLLING ACTION IF
YOU WANT AND THIS THIS IS
STARTING TO CAUSE SOME REAL
FRICTION BETWEEN THE CITY AND
BUSINESSES AND COMMUNITY
MEMBERS.
SO LET'S LET'S GET CRACKING.
LET'S LET'S DO SOME MORE TO SEE
WHAT WE CAN AND WE CAN IMPROVE
IT EVEN EVEN AFTER WE RAISE A
RESERVE LIMIT ROAD AFTER WE
FREE ZONE WASHINGTON AFTER WE
HAVE REASON LEFT AFTER WE HAVE
RETURNED PAC, AFTER WE'VE
RESOLVED THAT AS AN OUTCOME WE
CAN DO ALL WE CAN DO ALL
OF THOSE AND STILL MAKE
IMPROVEMENTS AT DC ONE AFTER
THAT.
SO LET'S YOU KNOW, USE BOTH
HANDS WE CAN WORK ON EACH ONE
WITH ONE HAND AND WORK ON
ROLLING IT OUT WITH ONE HAND
AND WORK ON IMPROVING WITH
ANOTHER.
THAT'S WHY WE HAVE MULTIPLE
PEOPLE HERE.
THAT'S WHY WE'VE GOT WE'VE GOT
MULTIPLE MEMBERS OF STAFF.
IT'S IT'S SO LET'S GO AT THAT
AND LET'S LET'S REMEMBER THAT
ONE IS IT IS SUPPOSED TO BE
DIFFERENT FROM FROM WHAT WE'RE
USED TO SEEING IN EVERY LITTLE
TRASHY LITTLE CITY IN AMERICA
YOU'VE GOT SEVENTEEN LANES
STRODE THAT AND NO ABILITY TO
WALK ANYWHERE.
>> TITCHY WANTS POST BE
DIFFERENT THAN THAT ONE IS
SUPPOSED TO BE MORE LIKE
DOWNTOWN SO LET'S AND LET'S NOT
TAKE TAKE THAT AND OH WELL WELL
WE'LL MAKE IT LIKE WE'LL MAKE
IT LOOK A BIT LIKE DOWNTOWN BUT
WE'RE STILL GOING TO LOOK BAD
AT THAT.
YOU'VE GOT PEOPLE HAVE CARS
JUST EVERYWHERE IT'S IT'S IT'S
RIDICULOUS.
THIS IS THIS IS SUPPOSED TO BE
DIFFERENT FROM THIS IS SUPPOSED
TO BE AN EXAMPLE FOR THE REST
OF AMERICA.
IT'S MAKING THAT THERE ARE NO
MORE COLORS.
>> THANK YOU.
>> SO UH, NEXT ROUND TO
COMMISSIONER PROPOSE BUSINESS
COMMISSIONER, JUST A QUICK
CLARIFICATION FOR THE SAKE
OF BEING ACCURATE BUT I
MISREMEMBERED THE MOTION THAT
BROUGHT THIS TO OUR TABLE.
IT DID HAPPEN WITH THE NEW
COUNCIL AND I WAS FOCUSING ON
THE SIX TO FIVE VOTE THAT WAS
DELETED AT THE URGING
OF COMMISSIONER IGHER WHO SAID
THERE IS A HUGE SENSE
OF URGENCY AROUND TO ONE
REZONING IN ANN ARBOR.
SO I APOLOGIZE FOR MISSTATING
IT AND I JUST BEFORE THE END
OF THE MEETING WANTED TO
CORRECT THE RECORD.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ANYONE AND MOVE TO ADJOURN MOVE
BY COMMISSIONER BY COMMISSIONER
CLARKE.
WE ARE ADJOURNED NO